About Us | APSIT
Skip to main content
Late Shree Ashokbhai P. Shah
Founder, Parshvanath Charitable Trust
A. P. Shah Institute of Technology (APSIT) has started functioning with commitment of imparting state of art technical education so as to inculcate conceptual know-how, analyzing skills, decision making abilities and leadership qualities in the students. APSIT stands committed to the intellectual and moral growth of every student.
APSIT has experienced and proficient team which aspires to unlock the hidden potential in subconscious minds of students and to create competent Engineers with vision & social commitment.
​
Parshvanath Charitable Trust
A. P. Shah Institute of Technology is managed by Parshvanath Charitable Trust (PCT) which was established in November, 1993, under the leadership of Late Shri Ashokbhai Shah.
PCT is committed, to provide all the world class facilities, infrastructure, technology and the appropriate environment to the students to achieve their goals of becoming successful professionals in the present era of globalization.
The trust aspires to develop APSIT which will be recognized all over the globe as one of the prominent and authentic centres of technological training & research.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
:
SHRI. CHIRAG A. SHAH,     CHAIRMAN
SHRI. NIRANJAN P. SHAH,     SECRETARY
SMT. POOJA C. SHAH,     TRUSTEE
SHRI. KUNTHAL N. SHAH,     TRUSTEE
SHRI. MINESH N. SHAH,     TRUSTEE
SHRI. HETANSHU C. SHAH,     TRUSTEE
Hon'ble Shree Chiragbhai A Shah
A. P. Shah Institute Of Technology is  governed by  Parshavnath Charitable Trust which was founded by my father Hon'ble Shree Ashokbhai P Shah in 1993. To run an engineering college in the trust my father had a dream that a person who comes to Mumbai, he can study in a good institute with a very low fees.
Hon'ble Shree Chiragbhai A Shah
Chairman, Parshvanath Charitable Trust.
Founder, A P Shah Institute of Technology, Thane.
Hon'ble Shree Niranjanbhai P Shah
PCT's A P Shah Institute of Technology, Thane is committed to create an environment which is most conductive to the overall personality of the students.
Hon'ble Shree Niranjanbhai P Shah
Secretary
, Founder Trustee, Parshvanath Charitable Trust.
​
Our Team
Principal Dr. Uttam D Kolekar
It is my privilege to welcome you to the website of our Institute, dedicated to the quality technical education with all round development of the students to be competent professional Engineers of tomorrows to serve the society. We have exemplary infrastructural facilities, well equipped laboratories, separate computer center, the team of highly qualified faculty and the exhilarating atmosphere in the campus will surely take you to enviable heights in your capabilities and achievements.
We have research oriented, challenge seeking, well qualified and devoted faculty to train the students in quality technical education. The ultimate aim of our management and staff is to get higher percentage to our students and place them in multi-national companies. We conduct Seminars, Workshops, STTP, National and International conferences to update the development in science technology.
I believe that the institute will continue to produce competent technocrats and managers who will make significant contribution to the corporate world and industries all over the world which will enable them to serve as global citizens.
With Best Wishes
Dr. Uttam D. Kolekar
Principal
PhD (Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering)
Vice-Principal, Prof. Atul M. Deshpande
We have learning management system called as moodle(The e-learning Software). Faculty members can upload their ppt, notes, question banks, solutions, even attendence on moodle. Student can access all the uploaded material either with pc or with mobile. Adoption of best practices like e-learning & online tests has ensured best academic results in University.
Prof. Atul M. Deshpade
Vice-Principal
Heads of Departments
Contact Info
Address: Survey No. 12, 13
Opp. Hypercity Mall, Kasarvadavali,
Ghodbunder Road, Thane West,
Thane, Maharashtra 400615
Phone: 022-25973737
[email protected]
Mobile: 7738305400 / 7738940600
Exam (for exam/transcripts related queries contact:
[email protected]
,
[email protected]
)