Academic Leadership | APSIT
Skip to main content
Convocation Ceremony @APSIT
Our Recruiters
Capgemini Placed Students of 2025 Batch
LTI Mind Tree Placed Students
APSIT: Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE), Maharashtra-Goa has awarded. APSIT "The Best Engineering College" and "Best Principal"
AurionPro Placed Students
Our Team
Principal Dr. Uttam D Kolekar
It is my privilege to welcome you to the website of our Institute, dedicated to the quality technical education with all round development of the students to be competent professional Engineers of tomorrows to serve the society. We have exemplary infrastructural facilities, well equipped laboratories, separate computer center, the team of highly qualified faculty and the exhilarating atmosphere in the campus will surely take you to enviable heights in your capabilities and achievements.
We have research oriented, challenge seeking, well qualified and devoted faculty to train the students in quality technical education. The ultimate aim of our management and staff is to get higher percentage to our students and place them in multi-national companies. We conduct Seminars, Workshops, STTP, National and International conferences to update the development in science technology.
I believe that the institute will continue to produce competent technocrats and managers who will make significant contribution to the corporate world and industries all over the world which will enable them to serve as global citizens.
With Best Wishes
Dr. Uttam D. Kolekar
Principal
PhD (Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering)
Vice-Principal, Prof. Atul M. Deshpande
We have learning management system called as moodle(The e-learning Software). Faculty members can upload their ppt, notes, question banks, solutions, even attendence on moodle. Student can access all the uploaded material either with pc or with mobile. Adoption of best practices like e-learning & online tests has ensured best academic results in University.
Prof. Atul M. Deshpade
Vice-Principal
Heads of Departments
Contact Info
Address: Survey No. 12, 13
Opp. Hypercity Mall, Kasarvadavali,
Ghodbunder Road, Thane West,
Thane, Maharashtra 400615
Phone: 022-25973737
[email protected]
Mobile: 7738305400 / 7738940600
Exam (for exam/transcripts related queries contact:
[email protected]
,
[email protected]
)