 
AC: 23/7/2020  
 Item No.  127  
 
UNIVERSITY OF MUMBAI 
 
 
 
Bachelor of Engineering 
in 
Computer Engineering 
Second Year with Effect from AY 2020-21 
Third Year with Effect from AY 2021-22 
Final Year with Effect from AY 2022-23 
 
 (REV- 2019 ‘C’ Scheme) from Academic Year 2019 – 20 
Under 
FACULTY OF SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY 
 
(As per AICTE guidelines with effect from the academic year 2019–2020) 

 
 
 
Date  
 
 
Dr. S. K. Ukarande     Dr Anuradha Muzumdar 
Associate Dean     Dean 
Faculty of Science and Technology   Faculty of Science and Technology            
University of Mumbai     University of Mumbai 
 
 
Sr. No.  Heading  Particulars  
1  Title of the Course  Second Year B.E. Computer Engineering   
2  Eligibility for Admission  
 
After Passing First Year Engineering as per the 
Ordinance 0.6242 
3  Passing  Marks  40%  
4  Ordinances /  
Regulations ( if any)  Ordinance 0.6242 
5  No. of Years / Semesters  8 semesters  
6  Level   P.G. / U.G./ Diploma / Certificate 
(Strike out which is not applicable)  
7  Pattern   Yearly / Semester 
(Strike out which is not applicable )   
8  Status   New / Revised 
(Strike out which is not applicable )  
9  To be implemented from 
Academic Year  With effect from Academic Year:  2020-2021 
 
 
 
 
 
             
             
             
             
             
             
AC: 23/7/2020  
  Item No.  127  
 
UNIVERSITY OF MUMBAI  
 
 
 
 
Syllabus for Approval  
 
 
Preamble 
 
To meet the challenge of ensuring excellence in engineering education, the issue of quality needs to 
be addressed, debated and taken forward in a systematic manner. Accreditation is the principal 
means of quality assurance in higher education. The major emphasis of accreditation process is to 
measure the outcomes of the program that is being accredited. In line with this Faculty of Science 
and Technology (in particular Engineering)of University of M umbai has taken a lead in 
incorporating philosophy of outcome based education in the process of curriculum development. 
Faculty resolved that course objectives and course outcomes are to be clearly defined for each 
course, so that all faculty members in af filiated institutes understand the depth and approach of 
course to be taught, which will enhance learner’s learning process. Choice based Credit and grading 
system enables a much-required shift in focus from teacher-centric to learner-centric education since 
the workload estimated is based on the investment of time in learning and not in teaching. It also 
focuses on continuous evaluation which will enhance the quality of education. Credit assignment for 
courses is based on 15 weeks teaching learning process, however content of courses is to be taught in 
13 weeks and remaining 2  weeks to be utilized for revision, guest lectures, coverage of content 
beyond syllabus etc. 
There was a concern that the earlier revised curriculum more focused on providing informati on and 
knowledge across various domains of the said program, which led to heavily loading of students in 
terms of direct contact hours. In this regard, faculty of science and technology resolved that to 
minimize the burden of contact hours, total credits of entire program will be of 170, wherein focus is 
not only on providing knowledge but also on building skills, attitude and self learning. Therefore in 
the present curriculum skill based laboratories and mini projects are made mandatory across all 
disciplines of engineering in second and third year of programs, which will definitely facilitate self 
learning of students. The overall credits and approach of curriculum proposed in the present revision 
is in line with AICTE model curriculum. 
The present curriculum will be implemented for Second Year of Engineering from the academic year 
2020-21. Subsequently this will be carried forward for Third Year and Final Year Engineering in the 
academic years 2021-22, 2022-23, respectively. 
 
 
Dr. S. K. Ukarande     Dr Anuradha Muzumdar 
Associate Dean      Dean 
Faculty of Science and Technology              Faculty of Science and Technology 
University of Mumbai     University of Mumbai 
 
  
 
 
 
Incorporation and Implementation of Online Contents from 
NPTEL/ Swayam Platform 
 
The curriculum revision is mainly focused on knowledge component, skill based activities and 
project based activities. Self learning opportunities are provided to learners. In the revision 
process this time in particular Revised syllabus of ‘C ‘ scheme wherever possible additional 
resource links of platforms such as NPTEL, Swayam are appropriately provided. In an earlier 
revision of curriculum in the year 2012 and 2016 in Revised scheme ‘A' and ‘B' respectively, 
efforts were made to use online con tents more appropriately as additional learning materials to 
enhance learning of students.  
In the current revision based on the recommendation of AICTE model curriculum overall credits 
are reduced to 171, to provide opportunity of self learning to learner . Learners are now getting 
sufficient time for self learning either through online courses or additional projects for enhancing 
their knowledge and skill sets. 
The Principals/ HoD’s/ Faculties of all the institute are required to motivate and encourage 
learners to use additional online resources available on platforms such as NPTEL/ Swayam. 
Learners can be advised to take up online courses, on successful completion they are required to 
submit certification for the same. This will definitely help learners to  facilitate their enhanced 
learning based on their interest.  
 
 
 
Dr. S. K. Ukarande     Dr Anuradha Muzumdar 
Associate Dean      Dean 
Faculty of Science and Technology               Faculty of Science and Technology 
University of Mumbai      University of Mumbai 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Preface by Board of Studies in Computer Engineering 
Dear Students and Teachers, we, the members of Board of Studies Computer Engineering, are 
very happy to present Second Year Computer Engineering syllabus effective from the Academic 
Year 2020-21 (REV-2019’C’ Scheme). We are sure you will find this syllabus  interesting and 
challenging.  
Computer Engineering is one of the most sought -after courses amongst engineering students 
hence there is a continuous requirement of revision of syllabus. The syllabus focuses on 
providing a sound theoretical background as well as good practical exposure to students in the 
relevant areas. It is intended to provide a modern, industry -oriented education in Computer 
Engineering. It aims at producing trained professionals who can successfully acquainted with the 
demands of the industry worldwide. They  obtain skills and experience in up -to-date the 
knowledge to analysis, design, implementation, validation, and documentation of computer 
software and systems. 
The revised syllabus falls in line with the objectives of af filiating University, AICTE, UGC, and 
various accreditation agencies by keeping an eye on the technological developments, 
innovations, and industry requirements.  
The salient features of the revised syllabus are: 
1. Reduction in credits to 170 is implemented to ensure that students have more time for 
extracurricular activities, innovations, and research.  
2. Introduction of Skill Based Lab and Mini Project to showcase their talent by doing 
innovative projects that strengthen their profile and increases the chance of employability.  
3. Students are encouraged to take up part of course through MOOCs platform SWAYAM 
 
We would like to place on record our gratefulness to the faculty, students, industry experts and 
stakeholders for having helped us in the formulation of this syllabus. 
 
Board of Studies in Computer Engineering 
Prof. Sunil Bhirud   : Chairman 
Prof. Madhumita Chatterjee : Member 
Prof. Sunita Patil   : Member 
Prof. Leena Raga   : Member 
Prof. Subhash Shinde  : Member 
Prof. Meera Narvekar  : Member 
Prof. Suprtim Biswas  : Member 
Prof. Sudhir Sawarkar  : Member 
Prof. Dayanand Ingle  : Member 
Prof. Satish Ket   : Member 
 
 
 
 
Program Structure for Second Year Computer Engineering 
UNIVERSITY OF MUMBAI (With Effect from 2020-2021) 
Semester III 
Course 
Code Course Name 
Teaching Scheme 
(Contact Hours) Credits Assigned 
Theory Pract. Tut. Theory Pract. Tut. Total 
CSC301 Engineering Mathematics-
III 3 -- 1* 3 -- 1 4 
CSC302 Discrete Structures and 
Graph Theory 3 -- -- 3 -- -- 3 
CSC303 Data Structure 3 -- -- 3 -- -- 3 
CSC304 Digital Logic & Computer 
Architecture  3 -- -- 3 -- -- 3 
CSC305 Computer Graphics 3 -- -- 3 -- -- 3 
CSL301 Data Structure Lab -- 2 -- -- 1 -- 1 
CSL302 Digital Logic & Computer 
Architecture Lab  -- 2 -- -- 1 -- 1 
CSL303 Computer Graphics Lab -- 2 -- -- 1 -- 1 
CSL304 
Skill base Lab course: 
Object Oriented 
Programming with Java 
-- 2+2* -- -- 2 -- 2 
CSM301 Mini Project – 1 A -- 4$ -- -- 2 -- 2 
Total 15 14 1 15 07 1 23 
Course 
Code Course Name 
Examination Scheme 
Theory Term 
Work 
Pract 
& oral Total 
Internal Assessment  
End 
Sem. 
Exam 
Exam. 
Duration 
(in Hrs)  
   
Test  
1 Test2 Avg      
CSC301 Engineering Mathematics-
III 20 20 20 80 3 25 -- 125 
CSC302 Discrete Structures and 
Graph Theory 20 20 20 80 3 -- -- 100 
CSC303 Data Structure 20 20 20 80 3 -- -- 100 
CSC304 Digital Logic & Computer 
Architecture  20 20 20 80 3 -- -- 100 
CSC305 Computer Graphics 20 20 20 80 3 -- -- 100 
CSL301 Data Structure Lab -- -- -- -- -- 25 25 50 
CSL302 Digital Logic & Computer 
Architecture Lab  -- -- -- -- -- 25 -- 25 
CSL303 Computer Graphics Lab -- -- -- -- -- 25 25 50 
CSL304 
Skill base Lab course: 
Object Oriented 
Programming with Java 
-- -- -- -- -- 50 25 75 
CSM301 Mini Project – 1 A -- -- -- -- -- 25 25 50 
Total -- -- 100 400 -- 175 100 775 
*Should be conducted batch wise and  
$ indicates workload of Learner (Not Faculty), Students can form groups with minimum 2 (Two) 
and not more than 4 (Four), Faculty Load: 1 hour per week per four groups 
  
 
Program Structure for Second Year Computer Engineering  
UNIVERSITY OF MUMBAI (With Effect from 2020-2021) 
Semester IV 
Course 
Code Course Name 
Teaching Scheme 
(Contact Hours) Credits Assigned 
Theory Pract. Tut. Theory Pract. Tut. Total 
CSC401 Engineering Mathematics-
IV 3 -- 1* 3 -- 1 4 
CSC402 Analysis of Algorithm 3 -- -- 3 -- -- 3 
CSC403 Database Management 
System 3 -- -- 3 -- -- 3 
CSC404 Operating System 3 -- -- 3 -- -- 3 
CSC405 Microprocessor 3 -- -- 3 -- -- 3 
CSL401 Analysis of Algorithm Lab -- 2 -- -- 1 -- 1 
CSL402 Database Management 
System Lab -- 2 -- -- 1 -- 1 
CSL403 Operating System Lab -- 2 -- -- 1 -- 1 
CSL404 Microprocessor Lab -- 2 -- -- 1 -- 1 
CSL405 Skill Base Lab Course:  
Python Programming  -- 2*+2 -- -- 2 -- 2 
CSM401 Mini Project 1-B -- 4$ -- -- 2 -- 2 
Total 15 16 1 15 7 1 24 
Course 
Code Course Name 
Examination Scheme 
Theory Term 
Work 
Pract 
& oral Total 
Internal Assessment  
End 
Sem. 
Exam. 
Exam. 
Duration 
(in Hrs)  
   
Test 
1 Test 2 Avg.      
CSC401 Engineering Mathematics-
IV 20 20 20 80 3 25 -- 125 
CSC402 Analysis of Algorithm 20 20 20 80 3 -- -- 100 
CSC403 Database Management 
System 20 20 20 80 3 -- -- 100 
CSC404 Operating System 20 20 20 80 3 -- -- 100 
CSC405 Microprocessor 20 20 20 80 3 -- -- 100 
CSL401 Analysis of Algorithm Lab -- -- -- -- -- 25 25 50 
CSL402 Database Management 
System Lab -- -- -- -- -- 25 25 50 
CSL403 Operating System Lab -- -- -- -- -- 25 25 50 
CSL404 Microprocessor Lab -- -- -- -- -- 25 -- 25 
CSL405 Skill Base Lab Course:  
Python Programming   -- -- -- -- -- 25 -- 25 
CSM401 Mini Project 1-B -- -- -- -- -- 25 25 50 
Total -- -- 100 400 -- 175 100 775 
*Should be conducted batchwise   and   
$ indicates workload of Learner (Not Faculty), Students can form groups with minimum 2 (Two) 
and not more than 4 (Four), Faculty Load: 1 hour per week per four groups. 
 
 
Course Code Course Name Credits 
CSC301 Engineering Mathematics-III 4 
 
Pre-requisite: Engineering Mathematics-I, Engineering Mathematics-II 
 
Course Objectives: The course aims:  
1 To learn the Laplace Transform, Inverse Laplace Transform of various functions, its 
applications. 
2 To understand the concept of Fourier Series, its complex form and enhance the problem-
solving skills. 
3 To understand the concept of complex variables, C-R equations with applications. 
4 To understand the basic techniques of statistics like correlation, regression, and curve 
fitting for data analysis, Machine learning, and AI. 
5 To understand some advanced topics of probability, random variables with their 
distributions and expectations.   
 
Course Outcomes: On successful completion, of course, learner/student will be able to: 
1 Understand the concept of Laplace transform and its application to solve the real integrals 
in engineering problems. 
2 Understand the concept of inverse Laplace transform of various functions and its 
applications in engineering problems. 
3 Expand the periodic function by using the Fourier series for real-life problems and 
complex engineering problems. 
4 Understand complex variable theory, application of harmonic conjugate to get orthogonal 
trajectories and analytic functions. 
5 Apply the concept of Correlation and Regression to the engineering problems in data 
science, machine learning, and AI. 
6 Understand the concepts of probability and expectation for getting the spread of the data 
and distribution of probabilities. 
 
Module Detailed Contents Hours 
1 Laplace Transform 7 
 1.1 Definition of Laplace transform, Condition of Existence of Laplace 
transform. 
 
1.2 Laplace Transform (L) of standard functions like 
𝑒𝑎𝑡,𝑠𝑖𝑛(𝑎𝑡),𝑐𝑜𝑠(𝑎𝑡),𝑠𝑖𝑛ℎ(𝑎𝑡),𝑐𝑜𝑠ℎ(𝑎𝑡)and𝑡𝑛,𝑛 ≥ 0. 
1.3 Properties of Laplace Transform: Linearity, First Shifting Theorem, 
Second Shifting Theorem, Change of Scale, Multiplication by t, 
Division by t, Laplace Transform of derivatives and integrals 
(Properties without proof). 
1.4 Evaluation of real improper integrals by using Laplace Transformation. 
1.5 Self-learning Topics: Laplace Transform:  Periodic functions, 
Heaviside’s Unit Step function, Dirac Delta Function, Special functions 
(Error and Bessel) 
2 Inverse Laplace Transform 7 
 2.1 Definition of Inverse Laplace Transform, Linearity property, Inverse 
Laplace Transform of standard functions, Inverse Laplace transform 
using derivatives. 
 
2.2 Partial fractions method to find Inverse Laplace transform. 
2.3 Inverse Laplace transform using Convolution theorem (without proof) 
2.4 Self-learning Topics: Applications to solve initial and boundary value 
 
problems involving ordinary differential equations. 
3 Fourier Series: 7 
 3.1 Dirichlet’s conditions, Definition of Fourier series and Parseval’s 
Identity (without proof). 
 
3.2 Fourier series of periodic function with period 2π and 2l. 
3.3 Fourier series of even and odd functions. 
3.4 Half range Sine and Cosine Series. 
3.5 Self-learning Topics: Orthogonal and orthonormal set of functions, 
Complex form of Fourier Series, Fourier Transforms. 
4 Complex Variables: 7 
 4.1 Function f(z)of complex variable, Limit, Continuity and 
Differentiability off(z), Analytic function: Necessary and sufficient 
conditions for f(z) to be analytic (without proof). 
 
4.2 Cauchy-Riemann equations in Cartesian coordinates (without proof). 
4.3 Milne-Thomson method: Determine analytic function f(z)when real 
part 
(u), imaginary part (v) or its combination (u+v / u-v) is given. 
4.4 Harmonic function, Harmonic conjugate and Orthogonal trajectories. 
4.5 Self-learning Topics: Conformal mapping, Linear and Bilinear 
mappings, cross ratio, fixed points and standard transformations. 
5 Statistical Techniques 6 
 5.1 Karl Pearson’s coefficient of correlation (r)  
5.2 Spearman’s Rank correlation coefficient (R) (with repeated and non-
repeated ranks) 
5.3 Lines of regression 
5.4 Fitting of first- and second-degree curves. 
5.5 Self-learning Topics: Covariance, fitting of exponential curve. 
6 Probability 6 
 6.1 Definition and basics of probability, conditional probability.  
6.2 Total Probability theorem and Bayes’ theorem. 
6.3 Discrete and continuous random variable with probability distribution 
and probability density function. 
6.4 Expectation, Variance, Moment generating function, Raw and central 
moments up to 4th order. 
6.5 Self-learning Topics: Skewness and Kurtosis of distribution (data). 
 
References: 
1 Higher Engineering Mathematics, Dr. B. S. Grewal, Khanna Publication. 
2 Advanced Engineering Mathematics, Erwin Kreyszig, Wiley Eastern Limited. 
3 Advanced Engineering Mathematics, R. K. Jain and S. R. K. Iyengar, Narosa Publication. 
4 Complex Variables and Applications, Brown and Churchill, McGraw-Hill Education. 
5 Probability, Statistics and Random Processes, T. Veerarajan, McGraw-Hill Education. 
6 Theory and Problems of Fourier Analysis with applications to BVP, Murray Spiegel, 
Schaum’s Outline Series. 
 
Term Work: 
General Instructions: 
1 Batch wise tutorials have to be conducted. The number of students per batch will be as per 
University pattern for practical. 
2 Students must be encouraged to write at least 6 class tutorials on the entire syllabus. 
3 A group of 4-6 students should be assigned a self -learning topic. Students should prepare a 
presentation/problem solving of 10-15 minutes. This will be considered as a mini project in 
Engineering Mathematics. This project will be graded out of 10 marks dep ending on the 
performance of the students.  
 
 
 
 
The distribution of Term Work marks will be as follows: 
1 Attendance (Theory and Tutorial) 05 marks 
2 Class Tutorials on entire syllabus 10 marks 
3  Mini project  10 marks 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment Test: 
The assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The 1stclass test (Internal 
Assessment I) has to be conducted when approximately 40% of  the syllabus is completed. The 
2nd class test has to be conducted (Internal Assessment II) when an additional 35% syllabus is 
completed. The duration of each test will be for one hour. 
 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 The question paper will comprise a total of 6 questions, each carrying 20 marks. 
2 Out of the 6 questions, 4 questions have to be attempted. 
3 Question 1, based on the entire syllabus, will have 4sub-questions of 5 marks each and is 
compulsory.  
4 Question 2 to Question 6 will have 3 sub-questions, each of 6, 6, and 8 marks, respectively. 
5 Each sub-question in (4) will be from different modules of the syllabus. 
6 Weightage of each module will be proportional to the number of lecture hours, as 
mentioned in the syllabus. 
 
  
 
Course Code Course Name Credits 
CSC302 Discrete Structures and Graph Theory 3 
 
Pre-requisite: Basic Mathematics 
 
Course Objectives: The course aims:  
1 Cultivate clear thinking and creative problem solving. 
2 Thoroughly train in the construction and understanding of mathematical proofs . Exercise 
common mathematical arguments and proof strategies. 
3 To apply graph theory in solving practical problems. 
4 Thoroughly prepare for the mathematical aspects of other Computer Engineering courses 
 
Course Outcomes: On successful completion, of course, learner/student will be able to: 
1 Understand the notion of mathematical thinking, mathematical proofs and to apply them 
in problem solving. 
2 Ability to reason logically. 
3 Ability to understand relations, functions, Diagraph and Lattice. 
4 Ability to understand and apply concepts of graph theory in solving real world problems. 
5 Understand use of groups and codes in Encoding-Decoding 
6 Analyze a complex computing problem and apply principles of discrete mathematics to 
identify solutions 
 
Module Detailed Contents Hours 
1 Logic 6 
 1.1 Propositional Logic , Predicate Logic , Laws of Logic, Quantifiers, 
Normal Forms, Inference Theory of Predicate Calculus, 
Mathematical Induction. 
 
2 Relations and Functions 6 
 2.1 Basic concepts of Set Theory  
2.2 Relations: Definition, Types of Relations , Representation of 
Relations, Closures of Relations, Warshall’s algorithm, Equivalence 
relations and Equivalence Classes 
2.3 Functions: Definition, Types of functions , C omposition of 
functions, Identity and Inverse function 
3 Posets and Lattice 5 
 3.1 Partial Order R elations, Poset, Hasse Diagram,  Chain and Anti 
chains, Lattice, Types of Lattice, Sub lattice 
 
4 Counting 6 
 4.1 Basic Counting Principle -Sum Rule, Product Rule, Inclusion -
Exclusion Principle, Pigeonhole Principle 
 
4.2 Recurrence relations, Solving recurrence relations 
5 Algebraic Structures 8 
 5.1 Algebraic structures with one binary operation: Semi group, 
Monoid, Groups, Subgroups, Abelian  Group, Cyclic group,  
Isomorphism 
 
5.2 Algebraic structures with two binary operations: Ring 
5.3 Coding Theory : Coding, binary information and error detection, 
decoding and error correction 
6 Graph Theory 8 
  Types of graphs,  Graph Representation, Sub graphs, Operations on 
Graphs, Walk, Path, Circuit, Connected Graphs, Disconnected 
Graph, Components, Homomorphism and Isomorphism of Graphs, 
Euler and Hamiltonian Graphs, Planar Graph, Cut Set, Cut Vertex, 
 
 
Applications. 
 
Textbooks: 
1 Bernad Kolman, Robert Busby, Sharon Cutler Ross, Nadeem -ur-Rehman, “Discrete  
Mathematical Structures”, Pearson Education. 
2 C. L. Liu “Elements of Discrete Mathematics”, second edition 1985, McGraw -Hill Book  
Company. Reprinted 2000. 
3 K. H. Rosen, “Discrete Mathematics and applications”, fifth edition 2003, Tata  McGraw Hill 
Publishing Company 
 
References: 
1 Y N Singh, “Discrete Mathematical Structures”, Wiley-India. 
2 J. L. Mott, A.  Kandel, T.  P. Baker, “Discrete Mathematics for Computer Scientists and  
Mathematicians”, Second Edition 1986, Prentice Hall of India. 
3 J. P. Trembley, R. Manohar “Discrete Mathematical Structures with Applications to 
Computer Science”, Tata McGraw Hill Publishing Company 
4 Seymour Lipschutz, Marc Lars Lipson, “Discrete Mathematics” Schaum‟s Outline, McGraw 
Hill Education. 
5 Narsing Deo, “Graph Theory with applications to engineering and computer science”, PHI 
Publications. 
6 P. K. Bisht, H. S. Dhami, “Discrete Mathematics”, Oxford press. 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment Test: 
The assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The 1 stclass test (Internal 
Assessment I) has to be conducted when approximately 40% of the syllabus is completed. The 
2nd class test has to be conducted (Internal Assessment II) when an additional 40% syllabus is 
completed. The duration of each test will be for one hour. 
 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 The question paper will comprise a total of 6 questions, each carrying 20 marks. 
2 Out of the 6 questions, 4 questions have to be attempted. 
3 Question 1, based on the entire syllabus, will have 4sub-questions of 5 marks each and is 
compulsory.  
4 Question 2 to Question 6 will have 3 sub-questions, each of 6, 6, and 8 marks, respectively. 
5 Each sub-question in (4) will be from different modules of the syllabus. 
6 Weightage of each module will be proportional to the number of lecture hours, as 
mentioned in the syllabus. 
 
Useful Links  
1 https://www.edx.org/learn/discrete-mathematics 
2 https://www.coursera.org/specializations/discrete-mathematics 
3 https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106/106/106106094/ 
4 https://swayam.gov.in/nd1_noc19_cs67/preview 
  
 
Course Code Course Name Credit 
CSC303 Data Structure 03 
 
Pre-requisite: C Programming 
 
Course Objectives: The course aims:  
1 To understand the need and significance of Data structures as a computer Professional. 
2 To teach concept and implementation of linear and Nonlinear data structures. 
3 To analyze various data structures and select the appropriate one to solve a specific real-
world problem. 
4 To introduce various techniques for representation of the data in the real world. 
5 To teach various searching techniques. 
 
Course Outcomes:  
1 Students will be able to implement Linear and Non-Linear data structures. 
2 Students will be able to handle various operations like searching, insertion, deletion and 
traversals on various data structures. 
3 Students will be able to explain various data structures, related terminologies and its types. 
4 Students will be able to choose appropriate data structure and apply it to solve problems in 
various domains. 
5 Students will be able to analyze and Implement appropriate searching techniques for a given 
problem. 
6 Students will be able to demonstrate the ability to analyze, design, apply and use data 
structures to solve engineering problems and evaluate their solutions. 
 
Module  Detailed Content Hours 
1  Introduction to Data Structures 2 
 1.1 Introduction to Data Structures, Concept of ADT, Types of Data Structures-
Linear and Nonlinear, Operations on Data Structures. 
 
2  Stack and Queues 8 
 2.1 Introduction, ADT of Stack, Operations on Stack, Array Implementation of 
Stack, Applications of Stack -Well form -ness of Parenthesis, Infix to Postfix 
Conversion and Postfix Evaluation, Recursion.  
 
 2.2 Introduction, ADT of Queue, Operations on Queue, Array Implementation of 
Queue, Types of Queue-Circular Queue, Priority Queue, Introduction of Double 
Ended Queue, Applications of Queue. 
 
3  Linked List 10 
 3.1 Introduction, Representation of Linked List, Linked List v/s Array, Types of 
Linked List - Singly Linked List, Circular Linked List, Doubly Linked List, 
Operations on Singly Linked List and Doubly Linked List, Stack and Queue 
using Singly Linked List, Singly Linked List Application -Polynomial 
Representation and Addition. 
 
4  Trees 11 
 4.1 Introduction, Tree Terminologies, Binary Tree, Binary Tree Representation, 
Types of Binary Tree, Binary Tree Traversals, Binary Search Tree, Operations 
on Binary Search Tree, Applications of Binary Tree -Expression Tree, Huffman 
Encoding, Search Trees-AVL, rotations in AVL Tree, operations on AVL Tree, 
Introduction of B Tree, B+ Tree. 
 
5  Graphs 4 
 
 
5.1 Introduction, Graph Terminologies, Representation of Graph, Graph Traversals-
Depth First Search (DFS) and Breadth First Search (BFS), Graph Application -
Topological Sorting.  
6  Searching Techniques 4 
 
6.1 Linear Search, Binary Search, Hashing-Concept, Hash Functions, Collision 
resolution Techniques  
 
Textbooks: 
1 Aaron M Tenenbaum, Yedidyah  Langsam, Moshe J Augenstein, “Data Structures Using C”, 
Pearson Publication. 
2 Reema Thareja, “Data Structures using C”, Oxford Press. 
3 Richard F. Gilberg and Behrouz A. Forouzan, “ Data Structures: A Pseudocode Approach 
with C”, 2ndEdition, CENGAGE Learning. 
4 Jean Paul Tremblay, P. G. Sorenson, “ Introduction to Data Structure and Its Applications ”, 
McGraw-Hill Higher Education 
5 Data Structures Using C, ISRD Group, 2ndEdition, Tata McGraw-Hill. 
 
References: 
1 Prof. P. S. Deshpande, Prof. O. G. Kakde, “C and Data Structures”, DreamTech press. 
2 E. Balagurusamy, “Data Structure Using C”, Tata McGraw-Hill Education India. 
3 Rajesh K Shukla, “Data Structures using C and C++”, Wiley-India 
4 GAV PAI, “Data Structures”, Schaum’s Outlines. 
5 Robert Kruse, C. L. Tondo, Bruce Leung, “Data Structures and Program Design in C”, 
Pearson Edition 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment: 
Assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The first-class test is to be conducted 
when approx. 40% syllabus is completed and second class test when additional40% syllabus is 
completed. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 Question paper will consist of 6 questions, each carrying 20 marks. 
2 The students need to solve a total of 4 questions. 
3 Question No.1 will be compulsory and based on the entire syllabus. 
4 Remaining question (Q.2 to Q.6) will be selected from all the modules. 
 
 
Useful Links  
1 https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106/102/106102064/ 
2 https://www.coursera.org/specializations/data-structures-algorithms 
3 https://www.edx.org/course/data-structures-fundamentals 
4 https://swayam.gov.in/nd1_noc19_cs67/preview 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course Code Course Name Credit 
CSC304 Digital Logic & Computer Organization and Architecture 3 
 
Pre-requisite: Knowledge on number systems 
Course Objective: 
1 To have the rough understanding of the basic structure and operation of basic digital circuits 
and digital computer. 
2 To discuss in detail arithmetic operations in digital system. 
3 To discuss generation of control signals and different ways of communication with I/O 
devices. 
4 To study the hierarchical memory and principles of advanced computing. 
 
Course Outcome: 
1 To learn different number systems and basic structure of computer system. 
2 To demonstrate the arithmetic algorithms. 
3 To understand the basic concepts of digital components and processor organization. 
4 To understand the generation of control signals of computer.  
5 To demonstrate the memory organization.  
6 To describe the concepts of parallel processing and different Buses. 
 
Module  Detailed Content Hours 
1  Computer Fundamentals 5 
 1.1 Introduction to Number System and Codes  
 1.2 Number Systems: Binary, Octal, Decimal, Hexadecimal,   
 1.3 Codes: Grey, BCD, Excess-3, ASCII, Boolean Algebra.  
 1.4 Logic Gates: AND, OR, NOT, NAND, NOR, EX-OR  
 1.5 Overview of computer organization and architecture.   
 1.6 Basic Organization of Computer and Block Level functional Units, Von-
Neumann Model. 
 
2  Data Representation and Arithmetic algorithms 8 
 2.1 Binary Arithmetic: Addition, Subtraction, Multiplication, Division using Sign 
Magnitude, 1’s and 2’s compliment, BCD and Hex Arithmetic Operation. 
 
 2.2 Booths Multiplication Algorithm, Restoring and Non -restoring Division 
Algorithm. 
 
 2.3 IEEE-754 Floating point Representation.  
3  Processor Organization and Architecture 6 
 3.1 Introduction: Half adder, Full adder, MUX, DMUX, Encoder, Decoder(IC 
level). 
 
 3.2 Introduction to Flip Flop: SR, JK, D, T (Truth table).  
 3.3 Register Organization, Instruction Formats, Addressing modes, Instruction 
Cycle, Interpretation and sequencing. 
 
4  Control Unit Design 6 
 4.1 Hardwired Control Unit: State Table Method, Delay Element Methods.  
 4.2 Microprogrammed Control Unit: Micro Instruction -Format, Sequencing and 
execution, Micro operations, Examples of microprograms. 
 
5  Memory Organization 6 
 5.1 Introduction and characteristics of memory, Types of RAM and ROM, Memory 
Hierarchy, 2-level Memory Characteristic,  
 
 5.2 Cache Memory: Concept, locality of reference, Design problems based on  
 
mapping techniques, Cache coherence and write policies. 
Interleaved and Associative Memory. 
6  Principles of Advanced Processor and Buses 8 
 6.1 Basic Pipelined Data path and control, data dependencies, data hazards, branch 
hazards, delayed branch, and branch prediction, Performance measures -CPI, 
Speedup, Efficiency, throughput, Amdhal’s law. 
 
 6.2 Flynn’s Classification, Introduction to multicore architecture.  
 6.3 Introduction to buses: ISA, PCI, USB. Bus Contention and Arbitration.  
    
Textbooks: 
1 R. P. Jain, “Modern Digital Electronic”, McGraw-Hill Publication, 4thEdition. 
2 William Stalling, “Computer Organization and Architecture: Designing and Performance”, 
Pearson Publication 10TH Edition. 
3 John P Hayes, “Computer Architecture and Organization”, McGraw -Hill Publication, 3 RD 
Edition. 
4 Dr. M. Usha and T. S. Shrikanth, “Computer system Architecture and Organization”, Wiley 
publication. 
 
References: 
1 Andrew S. Tanenbaum, “Structured Computer Organization”, Pearson Publication. 
2 B. Govindarajalu, “Computer Architecture and Organization”, McGraw-Hill Publication. 
3 Malvino, “Digital computer Electronics”, McGraw-Hill Publication, 3rdEdition. 
4 Smruti Ranjan Sarangi, “Computer Organization and Architecture”,  McGraw-Hill 
Publication. 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment: 
Assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The first class test is to be conducted 
when approx. 40% syllabus is completed and second class test when additional 40% syllabus is 
completed. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 Question paper will comprise of 6 questions, each carrying 20 marks.  
2 The students need to solve total 4 questions.  
3 Question No.1 will be compulsory and based on entire syllabus.  
4 Remaining question (Q.2 to Q.6) will be selected from all the modules.  
 
Useful Links  
1 https://www.classcentral.com/course/swayam-computer-organization-and-architecture-a-pedagogical-
aspect-9824 
2 https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106/103/106103068/ 
3 https://www.coursera.org/learn/comparch 
4 https://www.edx.org/learn/computer-architecture 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course Code Course Name Credits 
CSC305 Computer Graphics 3 
 
Prerequisite: Knowledge of C Programming and Basic Mathematics. 
Course Objectives 
1 To equip students with the fundamental knowledge and basic techni cal competence in the 
field of Computer Graphics. 
2 To emphasize on implementation aspect of Computer Graphics Algorithms. 
3 To prepare the student for advance a reas and professional avenues in the field of Computer 
Graphics 
 
Course Outcomes: At the end of the course, the students should be able to 
1 Describe the basic concepts of Computer Graphics. 
2 Demonstrate various algorithms for basic graphics primitives. 
3 Apply 2-D geometric transformations on graphical objects. 
4 Use various Clipping algorithms on graphical objects 
5 Explore 3 -D geometric transformations, curve representation techniques and projections  
methods. 
6 Explain visible surface detection techniques and Animation. 
 
Module  Detailed Content Hours 
1  Introduction and Overview of Graphics System: 02 
 
1.1 Definition and Representative uses of computer graphics, Overview of 
coordinate system, Definition of scan conversion, rasterization and 
rendering.  
 
 1.2 Raster scan & random scan displays, Architecture of raster graphics 
system with display processor, Architecture of random scan systems.  
2  Output Primitives: 10 
 
2.1 Scan conversions of point, line, circle and ellipse: DDA algorithm and 
Bresenham algorithm for line drawing, midpoint algorithm for circle, 
midpoint algorithm for ellipse drawing (Mathematical derivation for 
above algorithms is expected) 
 
 2.2 Aliasing, Antialiasing techniques like Pre and post filtering, super 
sampling, and pixel phasing).  
 2.3 Filled Area Primitive: Scan line Polygon Fill algorithm, inside outside 
tests, Boundary Fill and Flood fill algorithm.  
3  Two Dimensional Geometric Transformations 6 
 3.1 Basic transformations: Translation, Scaling, Rotation   
 3.2 Matrix representation and Homogeneous Coordinates   
 3.3 Composite transformation   
 3.4 Other transformations: Reflection and Shear  
4  Two-Dimensional Viewing and Clipping  7 
 4.1 Viewing transformation pipeline and Window to Viewport coordinate 
transformation  
 
4.2 Clipping operations : Point clipping, Line clipping algorithms: Cohen -
Sutherland, Liang : Barsky, Polygon Clipping Algorithms : Sutherland-
Hodgeman, Weiler-Atherton. 
 
5  Three Dimensional Geometric Transformations, Curves and 
Fractal Generation 8 
 5.1 3D Transformations: Translation, Rotation, Scaling and Reflection  
 
 5.2 Composite transformations: Rotation about an arbitrary axis   
 5.3 Projections – Parallel, Perspective. (Matrix Representation)  
 5.4 Bezier Curve, B -Spline Curve, Fractal -Geometry: Fractal Dimension, 
Koch Curve.  
6  Visible Surface Detection and Animation 6 
 
6.1 Visible Surface Detection:  Classification of Visible Surface Detection 
algorithm, Back Surface detection method , Depth Buffer method, Area 
Subdivision method  
 
 
6.2 Animation: Introduction to Animation, Traditional Animation 
Techniques, Principles of Animation,  Key framing: Character and 
Facial Animation, Deformation, Motion capture 
 
 
Textbooks: 
1 Hearn & Baker, “Computer Graphics C version”, 2nd Edition, Pearson Publication 
2 James D. Foley, Andries van Dam, Steven K Feiner, John F. Hughes , “Computer Graphics 
Principles and Practice in C”, 2ndEdition, Pearson Publication 
3 Samit Bhattacharya, “Computer Graphics”, Oxford Publication 
 
References: 
1 D. Rogers, “Procedural Elements for Computer Graphics”, Tata McGraw-Hill Publications. 
2 Zhigang Xiang, Roy Plastock , “Computer Graphics” , Schaum‟s Outlines McGraw -Hill 
Education 
3 Rajesh K. Maurya, “Computer Graphics”, Wiley India Publication. 
4 F. S. Hill, “Computer Graphics using OpenGL”, Third edition, Pearson Publications. 
 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment: 
Assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The first-class test is to be conducted 
when approx. 40% syllabus is completed and second class test when additional 40% syllabus is 
completed. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 Question paper will comprise of 6 questions, each carrying 20 marks. 
2 The students need to solve total 4 questions. 
3 Question No.1 will be compulsory and based on entire syllabus. 
4 Remaining question (Q.2 to Q.6) will be selected from all the modules 
 
Useful Links  
1 https://www.classcentral.com/course/interactivegraphics-2067 
2 https://swayam.gov.in/nd2_ntr20_ed15/preview 
3 https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106/106/106106090/ 
4 https://www.edx.org/course/computer-graphics-2 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Lab Code Lab Name Credit 
CSL301 Data Structures Lab 1 
 
Prerequisite:  C Programming Language. 
Lab Objectives:  
1 To implement basic data structures such as arrays, linked lists, stacks and queues 
2 Solve problem involving graphs, and trees  
3 To develop application using data structure algorithms  
4 Compute the complexity of various algorithms. 
Lab Outcomes: 
1 Students will be able to implement linear data structures & be able to handle operations like 
insertion, deletion, searching and traversing on them. 
2 Students will be able to implement nonlinear data structures & be able to handle operations 
like insertion, deletion, searching and traversing on them 
3 Students will be able to choose appropriate data structure and apply it in various problems 
4 Students will be able to select appropriate searching techniques for given problems. 
 
Suggested Experiments: Students are required to complete at least 10 experiments.  
Star (*) marked experiments are compulsory. 
Sr. No. Name of the Experiment 
1* Implement Stack ADT using array. 
2* Convert an Infix expression to Postfix expression using stack ADT. 
3* Evaluate Postfix Expression using Stack ADT. 
4 Applications of Stack ADT. 
5* Implement Linear Queue ADT using array. 
6* Implement Circular Queue ADT using array. 
7 Implement Priority Queue ADT using array. 
8* Implement Singly Linked List ADT. 
9* Implement Circular Linked List ADT. 
10 Implement Doubly Linked List ADT. 
11* Implement Stack / Linear Queue ADT using Linked List. 
12* Implement Binary Search Tree ADT using Linked List. 
13* Implement Graph Traversal techniques:) Depth First Search b) Breadth First Search 
14 Applications of Binary Search Technique. 
 
Useful Links: 
1 www.leetcode.com 
2 www.hackerrank.com 
3 www.cs.usfca.edu/~galles/visualization/Algorithms.html 
4 www.codechef.com 
 
Term Work: 
1 Term work should consist of 10 experiments. 
2 Journal must include at least 2 assignments. 
3 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures that satisfactory performance of 
laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. 
4 Total 25 Marks (Experiments: 15 -marks, Attendance Th eory & Prac tical: 05-marks, 
Assignments: 05-marks) 
Oral & Practical exam 
 Based on the entire syllabus of CSL301and CSC303 
 
 
Lab Code Lab Name Credit 
CSL302 Digital Logic & Computer Organization and Architecture Lab 1 
 
Prerequisite:  C Programming Language. 
Lab Objectives:  
1 To implement operations of the arithmetic unit using algorithms. 
2 Design and simulate different digital circuits. 
3 To design memory subsystem including cache memory. 
4 To demonstrate CPU and ALU design. 
 
Lab Outcomes: 
1 To understand the basics of digital components 
2 Design the basic building blocks of a computer: ALU, registers, CPU and memory 
3 To recognize the importance of digital systems in computer architecture 
4 To implement various algorithms for arithmetic operations. 
 
List of Experiments: 
Sr. No. Name of the Experiment 
1 To verify the truth table of various logic gates using ICs. 
2 To realize the gates using universal gates 
3 Code conversion. 
4 To realize half adder and full adder. 
5 To implement logic operation using MUX IC. 
6 To implement logic operation decoder IC. 
7 Study of flip flop IC. 
8 To implement ripple carry adder. 
9 To implement carry look ahead adder. 
10  To implement Booth’s algorithm. 
11 To implement restoring division algorithm. 
12 To implement non restoring division algorithm. 
13 To implement ALU design. 
14 To implement CPU design. 
15 To implement memory design. 
16 To implement cache memory design. 
 
Note: 
1 Any Four experiments from Exp. No. 1 to Exp. No. 7 using hardware. 
2 Any Six experiments from Exp. No. 8 to Exp. No. 16 using Virtual Lab, expect Exp. No 
10,11 and 12. 
3 Exp. No. 10 to Exp. No. 12 using Programming language. 
Digital Material: 
1 Manual to use Virtual Lab simulator for Computer Organization and Architecture developed by the 
Department of CSE, IIT Kharagpur. 
2 Link http://cse10-iitkgp.virtual-labs.ac.in/ 
 
Term Work: 
1 Term work should consist of 10 experiments. 
2 Journal must include at least 2 assignments  on content of theory and practical of “Digital 
Logic &Computer Organization and Architecture” 
3 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures that satisfactory performance of 
laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. 
 
4 Total 25 Marks (Experiments: 15 -marks, Attendance Th eory& Prac tical: 05-marks, 
Assignments: 05-marks) 
 
  
 
 
Course Code Lab Name Credits 
CSL303 Computer Graphics Lab 1 
 
Prerequisite:  C Programming Language. 
 
Lab Objectives:  
1 Understand the need of developing graphics application 
2 Learn algorithmic development of graphics primitives like line, circle, polygon etc. 
3 Learn the representation and transformation of graphical images and pictures 
 
Lab Outcomes: At the end of the course, the students should be able to 
1 Implement various output and filled area primitive algorithms  
2 Apply transformation, projection and clipping algorithms on graphical objects.  
3 Perform curve and fractal generation methods.  
4 Develop a Graphical application/Animation based on learned concept  
 
Content: 
Scan conversions: lines, circles, ellipses. Filling algorithms, clipping algorithms. 2D and 3D 
transformation Curves Visible surface determination. Simple animations Application of these 
through exercises in C/C++ 
 
List of Suggested Experiments:  
Sr. No. Name of the Experiment 
1 Implement DDA Line Drawing algorithm (dotted/dashed/thick) 
2 Implement Bresenham’s Line algorithm(dotted/dashed/thick) 
3 Implement midpoint Circle algorithm. 
4 Implement midpoint Ellipse algorithm. 
5 Implement Area Filling Algorithm: Boundary Fill, Flood Fill. 
6 Implement Scan line Polygon Filling algorithm. 
7 Implement Curve: Bezier for n control points, B Spline (Uniform)(at least one) 
8 Implement Fractal generation method (anyone)  
9 Character Generation: Bit Map method and Stroke Method  
10 Implement 2D Transformations: Translation, Scaling, Rotation, Reflection, Shear. 
11 Implement Line Clipping Algorithm: Cohen Sutherland / Liang Barsky. 
12 Implement polygon clipping algorithm (at least one)  
13 Program to perform 3D transformation.  
14 Perform projection of a 3D object on Projection Plane: Parallel and Perspective. 
15 Perform Animation (such as Rising Sun, Moving Vehicle, Smileys, Screen saver etc.) 
 
Term Work: 
1 Term work should consist of 10 experiments. 
2 Journal must include at least 2 assignments 
3 Mini Project to perform using C /C++/Java/OpenGL/Blender/ any other tool (2/3 students per 
group). Possible Ideas: Animation using multiple objects, Game development, Graphics 
editor: Like Paint brush, Text editor etc. 
4 The final certification and accept ance of term work ensures that satisfactory performance of 
laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. 
5 Total 25 Marks (Experiments: 1 0-marks, Attendance Th eory& Prac tical: 05-marks, 
Assignments: 05-marks, Mini Project: 5-marks) 
 
Oral & Practical exam 
 Based on the above contents and entire syllabus of CSC305 
 
 
 
 
Lab Code Lab Name Credits 
CSL304 Skill based Lab Course: Object Oriented Programming with Java 2 
 
Prerequisite:  Structured Programming Approach 
 
Lab Objectives:  
1 To learn the basic concepts of object-oriented programming 
2 To study JAVA programming language 
3 To study various concepts of JAVA programming like multithreading, exception Handling, 
packages, etc. 
4 To explain components of GUI based programming. 
 
Lab Outcomes: At the end of the course, the students should be able to 
1 To apply fundamental programming constructs. 
2 To illustrate the concept of packages, classes and objects. 
3 To elaborate the concept of strings, arrays and vectors. 
4 To implement the concept of inheritance and interfaces. 
5 To implement the concept of exception handling and multithreading. 
6 To develop GUI based application. 
 
Module  Detailed Content Hours 
1  Introduction to Object Oriented Programming 2 
 1.1 OOP concepts: Objects, class, Encapsulation, Abstraction, Inheritance, 
Polymorphism, message passing.  
 1.2 Java Virtual Machine  
 1.3 Basic programming constructs: variables, data types, operators, 
unsigned right shift operator, expressions, branching and looping.  
2  Class, Object, Packages and Input/output  6 
 
2.1 Class, object, data members, member functions 
Constructors, types, static members and functions  
Method overloading 
Packages in java, types, user defined packages 
Input and output functions in Java,  
Buffered reader class, scanner class 
 
3  Array, String and Vector 3 
 3.1 Array, Strings, String Buffer, Vectors  
4  Inheritance 4 
 
4.1 Types of inheritance, Method overriding, super, abstract class and 
abstract method, final, Multiple inheritance using interface, extends 
keyword 
 
5  Exception handling and Multithreading 5 
 
5.1 Exception handling using try, catch, finally, throw and throws, Multiple 
try and catch blocks, user defined exception 
Thread lifecycle, thread class methods, creating threads using extends 
and implements keyword. 
 
6  GUI programming in JAVA 6 
 
6.1 Applet and applet life cycle, creating applets, graphics class functions, 
parameter passing to applet, Font and color class. 
Event handling using event class 
AWT: working with windows, using AWT controls for GUI design 
Swing class in JAVA 
 
 
Introduction to JDBC, JDBC-ODBC connectivity, JDBC architecture. 
 
Textbooks: 
1  Herbert Schildt, ‘JAVA: The Complete Reference’, Ninth Edition, Oracle Press. 
2 E. Balagurusamy, ‘Programming with Java’, McGraw Hill Education. 
 
References: 
1  Ivor Horton, “Beginning JAVA‟, Wiley India.  
2 Dietal and Dietal, “Java: How to Program‟, 8th Edition, PHI . 
3 “JAVA Programming‟, Black Book, Dreamtech Press.  
4 “Learn to Master Java programming‟, Staredu solutions 
 
Digital material: 
1 www.nptelvideos.in 
2 www.w3schools.com 
3 www.tutorialspoint.com 
4 https://starcertification.org/Certifications/Certificate/securejava 
 
Suggested List of Programming Assignments/laboratory Work: 
Sr. No. Name of the Experiment 
1 Programs on Basic programming constructs like branching and looping 
2 Program on accepting input through keyboard. 
3 Programs on class and objects 
4 Program on method and constructor overloading. 
5 Program on Packages 
6 Program on 2D array, strings functions 
7 Program on String Buffer and Vectors 
8 Program on types of inheritance 
9 Program on Multiple Inheritance 
10 Program on abstract class and abstract methods. 
11 Program using super and final keyword 
12 Program on Exception handling 
13 Program on user defined exception 
14 Program on Multithreading 
15 Program on Graphics class 
16 Program on applet class 
17 Program to create GUI application 
18 Mini Project based on the content of the syllabus (Group of 2-3 students) 
 
Term Work: 
1 Term work should consist of 15 experiments. 
2 Journal must include at least 2 assignments 
3 Mini Project based on the content of the syllabus (Group of 2-3 students) 
4 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures that satisfactory performance of 
laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. 
5 Total 50-Marks (Experiments: 1 5-marks, Attendance: 05-marks, Assignments: 05 -marks, 
Mini Project: 20-marks, MCQ as a part of lab assignments: 5-marks) 
 
 
Oral & Practical exam 
Based on the entire syllabus of CSL 304: Skill based Lab Course: Object Oriented 
Programming with Java 
 
 
 
 
Course code Course Name Credits 
CSM301 Mini Project A 02 
 
Objectives  
1 To acquaint with the process of identifying the needs and converting it into the problem.  
2 To familiarize the process of solving the problem in a group.  
3 To acquaint with the process of applying basic engineering fundamentals to attempt 
solutions to the problems.  
4 To inculcate the process of self-learning and research. 
 
Outcome: Learner will be able to…  
1 Identify problems based on societal /research needs.  
2 Apply Knowledge and skill to solve societal problems in a group.  
3 Develop interpersonal skills to work as member of a group or leader.  
4 Draw the proper inferences from available results through theoretical/ 
experimental/simulations. 
5 Analyze the im pact of solutions in societal and environmental context for sustainable 
development. 
6 Use standard norms of engineering practices  
7 Excel in written and oral communication. 
8 Demonstrate capabilities of self-learning in a group, which leads to lifelong learning.  
9 Demonstrate project management principles during project work. 
 
Guidelines for Mini Project  
1 Students shall form a group of 3 to 4 students, while forming a group shall not be allowed 
less than three or more than four students, as it is a group activity. 
2 Students should do survey and identify needs, which shall be converted into problem 
statement for mini project in consultation with faculty super visor/head of 
department/internal committee of faculties. 
3 Students shall submit implementation plan in the form of Gantt/PERT/CPM chart, which 
will cover weekly activity of mini project. 
4 A logbook to be prepared by each group, wherein group can record weekly work progress, 
guide/supervisor can verify and record notes/comments.   
5 Faculty supervisor may give inputs to students during mini project activity; however, focus 
shall be on self-learning.     
6 Students in a group shall understand problem effectively, propose multiple solution and 
select best possible solution in consultation with guide/ supervisor.  
7 Students shall convert the best solution into working model using various com ponents of 
their domain areas and demonstrate.  
8 The solution to be validated with proper justification and report to be compiled in standard 
format of University of Mumbai.  
9 With the focus on the self -learning, innovation, addressing societal problems and 
entrepreneurship quality development within the students through the Mini Projects, it is 
preferable that a single project of appropriate level and quality to be carried out in two 
semesters by all the groups of the students. i.e. Mini Project 1 in semester III and IV. 
Similarly, Mini Project 2 in semesters V and VI.  
10 However, based on the individual students or group capability, with the mentor’s 
recommendations, if the p roposed Mini Project adhering to the qualitative aspects 
mentioned above gets completed in odd semester, then that group can be allowed to work 
on the extension of the Mini Project with suitable improvements/modifications or a 
completely new project idea i n even semester. This policy can be adopted on case by case 
basis. 
 
 
Term Work 
The review/ progress monitoring committee shall be constituted by head of departments of each 
institute. The progress of mini project to be evaluated on continuous basis, minim um two 
reviews in each semester. 
In continuous assessment focus shall also be on each individual student, assessment based on 
individual’s contribution in group activity, their understanding and response to questions. 
 
Distribution of Term work marks for both semesters shall be as below: 
 
Marks 
1 Marks awarded by guide/supervisor based on logbook   10 
2 Marks awarded by review committee      10 
3 Quality of Project report       05 
 
Review / progress monitoring committee may consider following points for 
assessment based on either one year or half year project as mentioned in 
general guidelines 
 
One-year project: 
1 In first semester entire theoretical solution shall be ready, including components/system 
selection and cost analysis. Two reviews will be conducted based on presentation given by 
students group. 
• First shall be for finalization of problem   
• Second shall be on finalization of proposed solution of problem. 
2 In second semester expected work shall be procurement of component’s/systems, building 
of working prototype, testing and validation of results based on work completed in an 
earlier semester. 
• First review is based on readiness of building working prototype to be conducted. 
• Second review shall be based on poster presentation cum demonstration of working 
model in last month of the said semester.  
Half-year project: 
1 In this case in one semester students’ group shall complete project in all aspects including, 
• Identification of need/problem 
• Proposed final solution 
• Procurement of components/systems 
• Building prototype and testing 
2 Two reviews will be conducted for continuous assessment, 
• First shall be for finalization of problem and proposed solution 
• Second shall be for implementation and testing of solution.   
 
Assessment criteria of Mini Project. 
 
Mini Project shall be assessed based on following criteria; 
1 Quality of survey/ need identification  
2 Clarity of Problem definition based on need. 
3 Innovativeness in solutions  
4 Feasibility of proposed problem solutions and selection of best solution 
5 Cost effectiveness  
6 Societal impact 
7 Innovativeness   
8 Cost effectiveness and Societal impact 
9 Full functioning of working model as per stated requirements 
 
10 Effective use of skill sets 
11 Effective use of standard engineering norms 
12 Contribution of an individual’s as member or leader 
13 Clarity in written and oral communication 
 In one year, project , first semester evaluation may be based on first six criteria’s and 
remaining may be used for second semester evaluation of performance of students in mini 
project. 
 In case of half year project  all criteria’s in generic may be considered for evaluation of 
performance of students in mini project.    
 
Guidelines for Assessment of Mini Project Practical/Oral Examination:   
1 Report should be prepared as per the guidelines issued by the University of Mumbai.  
2 Mini Project shall be assessed through a presentation and demonstration of working model 
by the student project group to a panel of Internal and External Examiners preferably from 
industry or research organizations having experience of more than five years  approved by 
head of Institution. 
3 Students shall be motivated to publish a paper based on the work in Conferences/students 
competitions. 
 
Mini Project shall be assessed based on following points; 
1 Quality of problem and Clarity 
2 Innovativeness in solutions  
3 Cost effectiveness and Societal impact 
4 Full functioning of working model as per stated requirements 
5 Effective use of skill sets 
6 Effective use of standard engineering norms 
7 Contribution of an individual’s as member or leader 
8 Clarity in written and oral communication 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Course Code Course Name Credits 
CSC401 Engineering Mathematics-IV 4 
 
Pre-requisite: Engineering Mathematics -I, Engineering Mathematics -II, Engineering 
Mathematics-III, Binomial Distribution. 
 
Course Objectives: The course aims to learn: 
1 Matrix algebra to understand engineering problems.  
2 Line and Contour integrals and expansion of a complex valued function in a power series. 
3 Z-Transforms and Inverse Z-Transforms with its properties. 
4 The concepts of probability distributions and sampling theory for small samples. 
5 Linear and Non-linear programming problems of optimization. 
 
Course Outcomes: On successful completion, of course, learner/student will be able to: 
1 Apply the concepts of eigenvalues and eigenvectors in engineering problems. 
2 Use the concepts of Complex Integration for evaluating integrals, computing residues & 
evaluate various contour integrals. 
3 Apply the concept of Z- transformation and inverse in engineering problems. 
4 Use the concept of probability distribution and sampling theory to engineering problems. 
5 Apply the concept of Linear Programming Problems to optimization. 
6 Solve Non-Linear Programming Problems for optimization of engineering problems.  
 
Module Detailed Contents Hours 
1 Linear Algebra (Theory of Matrices) 7 
 1.1 Characteristic Equation, Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors, and properties  
(without proof) 
 
1.2 Cayley-Hamilton Theorem (without proof), verification and reduction 
of higher degree polynomials 
1.3 Similarity of matrices, diagonalizable and non-diagonalizable matrices 
1.4 Self-learning Topics:  Derogatory and non -derogatory matrices, 
Functions of Square Matrix, Linear Transformations, Quadratic forms. 
2 Complex Integration 7 
 2.1 Line Integral, Cauchy’s Integral theorem for simple connected and 
multiply connected regions (without proof), Cauchy’s Integral formula 
(without proof). 
 
2.2 Taylor’s and Laurent’s series (without proof). 
2.3 Definition of Singularity, Zeroes, poles of f(z), Residues, Cauchy’s 
Residue Theorem (without proof) 
2.4 Self-learning Topics: Application of Residue Theorem to evaluate real 
integrations. 
3 Z Transform 5 
 3.1 Definition and Region of Convergence, Transform of Standard 
Functions: 
{𝑘𝑛𝑎𝑘},{𝑎|𝑘|},{ 𝐶.𝑎𝑘
𝑛
𝑘+𝑛 },{𝑐𝑘sin(𝛼𝑘+𝛽)},{𝑐𝑘 sinh𝛼𝑘},{𝑐𝑘 cosh𝛼𝑘}. 
 
3.2 Properties of Z Transform: Change of Scale, Shifting Property,  
Multiplication, and Division by k, Convolution theorem. 
3.3 Inverse Z transform: Partial Fraction Method, Convolution Method. 
3.4 Self-learning Topics: Initial value theorem, Final value theorem, 
Inverse of Z Transform by Binomial Expansion 
4 Probability Distribution and Sampling Theory 7 
 4.1 Probability Distribution: Poisson and Normal distribution  
 
4.2 Sampling distribution, Test of Hypothesis, Level of Significance, 
Critical region, One-tailed, and two-tailed test, Degree of freedom. 
4.3 Students’ t -distribution (Small sample). Test the significance of mean 
and Difference between the means of two sam ples. Chi -Square Test: 
Test of goodness of fit and independence of attributes, Contingency 
table. 
4.4 Self-learning Topics:  Test significance for Large samples, Estimate 
parameters of a population, Yate’s Correction. 
5 Linear Programming Problems 6 
 5.1 Types of solutions, Standard and Canonical of LPP, Basic and Feasible 
solutions, slack variables, surplus variables, Simplex method. 
 
5.2 Artificial variables, Big-M method (Method of penalty) 
5.3 Duality, Dual of LPP and Dual Simplex Method 
5.4 Self-learning Topics: Sensitivity Analysis, Two-Phase Simplex 
Method, Revised Simplex Method. 
6 Nonlinear Programming Problems 7 
 6.1 NLPP with one equality constraint (two or three variables) using the 
method of Lagrange’s multipliers 
 
6.2 NLPP with two equality constraints 
6.3 NLPP with inequality constraint: Kuhn-Tucker conditions 
6.4 Self-learning Topics: Problems with two inequality constraints, 
Unconstrained optimization: One-dimensional search method (Golden 
Search method, Newton’s method). Gradient Search method 
 
References: 
1 Erwin Kreyszig, “Advanced Engineering Mathematics”, John Wiley & Sons. 
2 R. K. Jain and S. R. K. Iyengar, “Advanced Engineering Mathematics”, Narosa. 
3 Brown and Churchill, “Complex Variables and Applications”, McGraw-Hill Education. 
4 T. Veerarajan, “Probability, Statistics and Random Processes”, McGraw-Hill Education. 
5 Hamdy A Taha, “Operations Research: An Introduction”, Pearson. 
6 S.S. Rao, “Engineering Optimization: Theory and Practice”, Wiley-Blackwell.  
7 Hira and Gupta, “Operations Research”, S. Chand Publication. 
 
Term Work: 
General Instructions: 
1 Batch wise tutorial shave to be conducted. The number of students per batch will be as per 
University pattern for practical. 
2 Students must be encouraged to write at least 6 class tutorials on the entire syllabus. 
3 A group of 4-6 students should be assigned a self -learning topic. Students should prepare a 
presentation/problem solving of 10-15 minutes. This will be considered as a mini project in 
Engineering Mathematics. This project will be graded out of 10 marks dep ending on the 
performance of the students.  
The distribution of Term Work marks will be as follows: 
1 Attendance (Theory and Tutorial)  05 marks 
2 Class Tutorials on entire syllabus 10 marks 
3  Mini project  10 marks 
 
Assessment: 
Internal Assessment Test: 
The assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The 1stclass test (Internal 
Assessment I) has to be conducted when approximately 40% of  the syllabus is completed. The 
2nd class test has to be conducted  (Internal Assessment II) when an additional 35% syllabus is 
 
completed. The duration of each test will be for one hour. 
 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 The question paper will comprise a total of 6 questions, each carrying 20 marks. 
2 Out of the 6 questions, 4 questions have to be attempted. 
3 Question 1, based on the entire syllabus, will have 4sub-questions of 5 marks each and is 
compulsory.  
4 Question 2 to Question 6 will have 3 sub-questions, each of 6, 6, and 8 marks, respectively. 
5 Each sub-question in (4) will be from different modules of the syllabus. 
6 Weightage of each module will be proportional to the number of lecture hours, as 
mentioned in the syllabus. 
 
  
 
Course Code Course Name   Credit 
CSC402 Analysis of Algorithms 3 
 
Prerequisite: Data structure concepts, Discrete structures 
Course Objectives: 
1 To provide mathematical approaches for Analysis of Algorithms 
2 To understand and solve problems using various algorithmic approaches 
3 To analyze algorithms using various methods 
 
Course Outcomes: At the end of the course learner will be able to  
1 Analyze the running time and space complexity of algorithms. 
2 Describe, apply and analyze the complexity of divide and conquer strategy. 
3 Describe, apply and analyze the complexity of greedy strategy. 
4 Describe, apply and analyze the complexity of dynamic programming strategy. 
5 Explain and apply backtracking, branch and bound.  
6 Explain and apply string matching techniques. 
 
Module  Detailed Contents Hours 
1  Introduction  8 
 1.1 Performance analysis, space, and time complexity  Growth of function, 
Big-Oh, Omega Theta notation Mathematical background for algorithm 
analysis. 
Complexity class: Definition of P, NP, NP -Hard, NP -Complete 
Analysis of selection sort, insertion sort. 
 
 1.2 Recurrences: The substitution method , Recursion tree method , Master 
method 
 
2  Divide and Conquer Approach 6 
 2.1 General method , Merge sort, Quick sort, Finding minimum and 
maximum algorithms and their Analysis, Analysis of Binary search. 
 
3  Greedy Method Approach 6 
 3.1 General Method, Single source shortest path: Dijkstra Algorithm 
Fractional Knapsack problem, Job sequencing with deadlines, 
Minimum cost spanning trees: Kruskal and Prim’s algorithms 
 
4  Dynamic Programming Approach 9 
 4.1 General Method, Multistage graphs, Single source shortest path: 
Bellman Ford Algorithm 
All pair shortest path: Floyd Warshall Algorithm, Assembly-line 
scheduling Problem0/1 knapsack Problem, Travelling Salesperson 
problem, Longest common subsequence 
 
5  Backtracking and Branch and bound 6 
 5.1 General Method, Backtracking: N-queen problem, Sum of subsets, 
Graph coloring 
 
 5.2 Branch and Bound: Travelling Salesperson Problem, 15 Puzzle problem  
6  String Matching Algorithms  4 
 6.1 The Naïve string-matching algorithm, The Rabin Karp algorithm, The 
Knuth-Morris-Pratt algorithm 
 
 
Textbooks: 
1 T. H. Cormen, C.E. Leiserson, R. L. Rivest, and C. Stein, “Introduction to algorithms”, 2 nd 
Edition, PHI Publication 2005. 
2 Ellis Horowitz, Sartaj Sahni, S. Rajsekaran. “Fundamentals of computer algorithms” 
University Press. 
 
 
References: 
1 Sanjoy Dasgupta, Christos Papadimitriou, Umesh Vazirani, “Algorithms”, Tata McGraw - 
Hill Edition. 
2 S. K. Basu, “Design Methods and Analysis of Algorithm”, PHI 
 
Assessment: 
Internal Assessment: 
Assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The first class test is to be conducted 
when approx. 40% syllabus is completed and second class test when additional 40% syllabus is 
completed. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 Question paper will comprise of total six questions. 
2 All question carries equal marks 
3 Questions will be mixed in nature (for example supposed Q.2 has part (a) from module 3 
then part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4 Only Four question need to be solved. 
5 In question paper weightage of each module will be proportional to number of respective 
lecture hours as mention in the syllabus. 
 
 
Useful Links  
1 https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106/106/106106131/ 
2 https://swayam.gov.in/nd1_noc19_cs47/preview 
3 https://www.coursera.org/specializations/algorithms 
4 https://www.mooc-list.com/tags/algorithms 
 
  
 
Course Code: Course Title Credit 
CSC403 Database Management System 3 
 
Prerequisite: Data Structures 
Course Objectives: 
1 Develop entity relationship data model and its mapping to relational model 
2 Learn relational algebra and Formulate SQL queries  
3 Apply normalization techniques to normalize the database 
4 Understand concept of transaction, concurrency control and recovery techniques. 
 
Course Outcomes: 
1 Recognize the need of database management system 
2 Design ER and EER diagram for real life applications 
3 Construct relational model and write relational algebra queries. 
4 Formulate SQL queries 
5 Apply the concept of normalization to relational database design. 
6 Describe the concept of transaction, concurrency and recovery. 
 
Module   Content Hrs 
1  Introduction Database Concepts 3 
 1.1 Introduction, Characteristics of databases, File system v/s Database  system, 
Data abstraction and data Independence, DBMS system architecture, 
Database Administrator 
 
2  Entity–Relationship Data Model 6 
 2.1 The Entity-Relationship (ER) Model: Entity types: Weak and strong entity 
sets, Entity sets, Types of Attributes, Keys, Relationship constraints: 
Cardinality and Participation, Extended Entity -Relationship (EER) Model: 
Generalization, Specialization and Aggregation 
 
3  Relational Model and relational Algebra 8 
 3.1 Introduction to the Relational Model, relational schema and concept of keys. 
Mapping the ER and EER Model to the Relational Model, Relational 
Algebra-operators, Relational Algebra Queries. 
 
4  Structured Query Language (SQL) 6 
 4.1 Overview of SQL, Data Definition Commands, Integrity constraints:  key 
constraints, Domain Constraints, Referential integrity , check constraints , 
Data Manipulation commands, Data Control commands, Set and string 
operations, aggregate function -group by, having, Views in SQL, joins, 
Nested and complex queries, Triggers 
 
5  Relational-Database Design 6 
 5.1 Pitfalls in Relational -Database designs, Concept of normalization, Function 
Dependencies, First Normal Form, 2NF, 3NF, BCNF. 
 
6  Transactions Management and Concurrency and Recovery 10 
 6.1 Transaction concept, Transaction states, ACID properties,  Transaction 
Control Commands , Concurrent Executions, Serializability-Conflict and 
View, Concurrency Control: Lock -based, Timestamp -based protocols, 
Recovery System: Log based recovery, Deadlock handling 
 
 
 
 
Textbooks: 
1 Korth, Slberchatz, Sudarshan, Database System Concepts, 6thEdition, McGraw Hill  
2 Elmasri and Navathe, Fundamentals of Database Systems, 5thEdition, Pearson Education  
3 Raghu Ramkrishnan and Johannes Gehrke, Database Management Systems, TMH 
 
References: 
1 Peter Rob and Carlos Coronel,  Database Systems Design, Implementation an d 
Management‖, Thomson Learning, 5thEdition.  
2 Dr. P.S. Deshpande, SQL and PL/SQL for Oracle 10g, Black Book, Dreamtech Press. 
3 G. K. Gupta, Database Management Systems, McGraw Hill, 2012 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment: 
Assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The first class test is to be conducted 
when approx. 40% syllabus is completed and second class test when additional 40% syllabus is 
completed. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 Question paper will comprise of total six questions. 
2 All question carries equal marks 
3 Questions will be mixed in nature (for example supposed Q.2 has part (a) from module 3 
then part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4 Only Four question need to be solved. 
5 In question paper weightage of each module will be proportional to  number of respective 
lecture hours as mention in the syllabus. 
 
Useful Links  
1 https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106/105/106105175/ 
2 https://swayam.gov.in/nd1_noc19_cs46/preview 
3 https://www.classcentral.com/course/swayam-database-management-system-9914 
4 https://www.mooc-list.com/tags/dbms 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Course Code Course Name Credit 
CSC404 Operating System  03 
 
Prerequisites: Data structures and Computer architecture 
 
Course Objectives: 
1 1. To introduce basic concepts and functions of operating systems. 
2 2. To understand the concept of process, thread and resource management. 
3 3. To understand the concepts of process synchronization and deadlock. 
4 4. To understand various Memory, I/O and File management techniques. 
 
Course Outcome: 
1 Understand the objectives, functions and structure of OS 
2 Analyze the concept of process management and evaluate performance of processscheduling 
algorithms.        
3 Understand and apply the concepts of synchronization and deadlocks 
4 Evaluate performance of Memory allocation and replacement policies 
5 Understand the concepts of file management. 
 Apply concepts of I/O management and analyze techniques of disk scheduling. 
 
 
Module Detailed Content Hours 
1 Operating system Overview 4 
 
1.1 Introduction, Objectives, Functions and Evolution of Operating 
System  1.2 Operating system structures: Layered, Monolithic and Microkernel 
1.3 Linux Kernel, Shell and System Calls 
2 Process and Process Scheduling 9 
 
2.1 Concept of a Process, Process States,  Process Description, Process 
Control Block. 
 2.2 Uniprocessor Scheduling -Types: Preemptive and Non -preemptive 
scheduling algorithms (FCFS, SJF, SRTN, Priority, RR) 
2.3 Threads: Definition and Types, Concept of Multithreading 
3 Process Synchronization and Deadlocks 9 
 
3.1 Concurrency: Principles of Concurrency, Inter -Process 
Communication, Process Synchronization. 
 
3.2 Mutual Exclusion: Requirements, Hardware Support (TSL), 
Operating System Support (Semaphores), Producer and Consumer 
problem. 
3.3 Principles of Deadlock: Conditions and Resource, Allocation Graphs, 
Deadlock Prevention,  Deadlock Avoidance : Banker‟s Algorithm , 
Deadlock Detection and Recovery, Dining Philosophers Problem. 
4 Memory Management 9 
 
4.1 
 
Memory Management Requirements,  Memory Partitioning: Fixed, 
Partitioning, Dynamic Partitioning , Memory Allocation Strategies: 
Best-Fit, First Fit, Worst Fit, Paging and Segmentation, TLB   
4.2 Virtual Memory: Demand Paging,  Page Replacement Strategies: 
FIFO, Optimal, LRU, Thrashing 
5  File Management 4 
 
 5.1 Overview, File Organization and Access, File Directories, File 
Sharing  
6  I/O management 4 
 
6.1 I/O devices, Organization of the I/O Function, Disk Organization, I/O 
Management and Disk Scheduling:  FCFS, SSTF, SCAN, CSCAN, 
LOOK, C-LOOK. 
 
 
Textbooks: 
1 William Stallings, Operating System: Internals and Design Principles, Prentice Hall, 
8thEdition, 2014, ISBN-10: 0133805913 • ISBN-13: 9780133805918. 
2 Abraham Silberschatz, Peter Baer Galvin and Greg Gagne, Operating System Concepts, 
John Wiley &Sons, Inc., 9thEdition, 2016, ISBN 978-81-265-5427-0 
References: 
1 Achyut Godbole and Atul Kahate, Operating Systems, McGraw Hill Education, 3rdEdition 
2 Andrew Tannenbaum, Operating System Design and Implementation, Pearson, 3rdEdition. 
3 Maurice J. Bach, “Design of UNIX Operating System”, PHI  
4 Sumitabha Das, “UNIX: Concepts and Applications”, McGraw Hill, 4thEdition 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment: 
Assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The first class test is to be conducted 
when approx. 40% syllabus is completed and second class test when additional 40% syllabus is 
completed. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 Question paper will comprise of 6 questions, each carrying 20 marks. 
2 The students need to solve total 4 questions. 
3 Question No.1 will be compulsory and based on entire syllabus. 
4 Remaining question (Q.2 to Q.6) will be selected from all the modules 
 
 
Useful Links  
1 https://swayam.gov.in/nd1_noc19_cs50/preview 
2 https://nptel.ac.in/courses/117/106/117106113/ 
3 https://www.classcentral.com/course/swayam-introduction-to-operating-systems-6559 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Course Code Course Name Credits 
CSC405 Microprocessor 3 
 
Prerequisites: Digital Logic and Computer Architecture 
 
Course objectives:  
1 To equip students with the fundamental knowledge and basic technical competence in 
thefield of Microprocessors. 
2 To emphasize on instruction set and logic to build assembly language programs.  
3 To prepare students for higher processor architectures and embedded systems  
 
Course outcomes: On successful completion of course, learner will be able to:  
1 Describe core concepts of 8086 microprocessor.  
2 Interpret the instructions of 8086 and write assembly and Mixed language programs.  
3 Identify the specifications of peripheral chip. 
4 Design 8086 based system using memory and peripheral chips. 
5 Appraise the architecture of advanced processors 
6 Understand hyperthreading technology 
 
 
Module Detailed Contents Hours 
1 The Intel Microprocessors 8086 Architecture 8 
 1.1 8086CPU Architecture,   
1.2 Programmer’s Model  
1.3 Functional Pin Diagram  
1.4 Memory Segmentation  
1.5 Banking in 8086  
1.6 Demultiplexing of Address/Data bus  
1.7 Functioning of 8086 in Minimum mode and Maximum mode 
1.8 Timing diagrams for Read and Write operations in minimum and 
maximum mode 
1.9 Interrupt structure and its servicing 
2 Instruction Set and Programming 6 
 2.1 Addressing Modes   
2.2 Instruction set -Data Transfer Instructions, String Instructions, Logical 
Instructions, Arithmetic Instructions, Transfer of Control Instructions, 
Processor Control Instructions  
2.3 Assembler Directives and Assembly Language Programming, Macros, 
Procedures  
3 Memory and Peripherals interfacing 8 
 3.1 Memory Interfacing - RAM and ROM Decoding Techniques – Partial 
and Absolute 
 
3.2 8255-PPI-Block diagram, CWR, operating modes, interfacing with 
8086. 
3.3 8257-DMAC-Block diagram, DMA operations and transfer modes. 
3.4 Programmable Interrupt Controller 8259 -Block Diagram, Interfacing 
the 8259 in single and cascaded mode. 
4 Intel 80386DX Processor 7 
 4.1 Architecture of 80386 microprocessor   
4.2 80386 registers –General purpose Registers, EFLAGS and Control 
 
registers  
4.3 Real mode, Protected mode, virtual 8086 mode  
4.4 80386 memory management in Protected Mode – Descriptors and 
selectors, descriptor tables, the memory paging mechanism  
5 Pentium Processor 6 
 5.1 Pentium Architecture   
5.2 Superscalar Operation,  
5.3 Integer &Floating-Point Pipeline Stages,  
5.4 Branch Prediction Logic,  
5.5 Cache Organization and 
5.6 MESI protocol 
6 Pentium 4 4 
 6.1 Comparative study of 8086, 80386, Pentium I, Pentium II and Pentium 
III 
 
6.2 Pentium 4: Net burst micro architecture. 
6.3 Instruction translation look aside buffer and branch prediction 
6.4 Hyper threading technology and its use in Pentium 4 
 
Textbooks: 
1 John Uffenbeck, “8086/8088 family: Design Programming and Interfacing”, PHI. 
2 Yu-Cheng Liu, Glenn A. Gibson , “ Microcomputer System : The 8086/8088 Family,  
Architecture, Programming and Design”, Prentice Hall 
3 Walter A. Triebel, “The 80386DX Microprocessor: hardware, Software and Interfacing ”, 
Prentice Hall  
4 Tom Shanley  and Don Anderson, “Pentium Processor System Architecture ”, Addison-
Wesley.  
5 K. M. Bhurchandani  and A. K. Ray,  “Advanced Microprocessors and Peripherals ”, 
McGraw Hill 
 
References: 
1 Barry B. Brey, “Intel Microprocessors”, 8thEdition, Pearson Education India  
2 Douglas Hall, “Microprocessor and Interfacing”, Tata McGraw Hill.  
3 Intel Manual 
4 Peter Abel, “IBM PC Assembly language and Programming”, 5th Edition, PHI  
5 James Antonakons, “The Pentium Microprocessor”, Pearson Education 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment Test: 
Assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The first class test is to be conducted 
when approx. 40% syllabus is completed and second class test when additional 40% syllabus is 
completed. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 Question paper will comprise of 6 questions, each carrying 20 marks.  
2 The students need to solve total 4 questions.  
3 Question No.1 will be compulsory and based on entire syllabus.  
4 Remaining question (Q.2 to Q.6) will be selected from all the modules.  
 
Useful Links  
1 https://swayam.gov.in/nd1_noc20_ee11/preview 
2 https://nptel.ac.in/courses/108/105/108105102/ 
3 https://www.classcentral.com/course/swayam-microprocessors-and-microcontrollers-9894 
4 https://www.mooc-list.com/tags/microprocessors 
 
 
 
Course Name Lab Name Credit 
CSL401 Analysis of Algorithms Lab 1 
 
Prerequisite:  Basic knowledge of programming and data structure  
 
Lab Objectives:  
1 To introduce the methods of designing and analyzing algorithms  
2 Design and implement efficient algorithms for a specified application 
3 Strengthen the ability to identify and apply the suitable algorithm for the given real-world 
problem. 
4 Analyze worst -case running time of algorithms and understand fundamental algorithmic 
problems. 
 
Lab Outcomes: At the end of the course, the students will be able to 
1 Implement the algorithms using different approaches. 
2 Analyze the complexities of various algorithms. 
3 Compare the complexity of the algorithms for specific problem.  
 
Description  
Implementation can be in any language. 
Suggested Practical List: 
Sr No  Suggested Experiment List 
1  Introduction 
 1.1 Selection sort, Insertion sort 
2  Divide and Conquer Approach 
 2.1 Finding Minimum and Maximum, Merge sort, Quick sort, Binary search 
3  Greedy Method Approach 
 3.1 Single source shortest path- Dijkstra 
Fractional Knapsack problem 
Job sequencing with deadlines 
Minimum cost spanning trees-Kruskal and Prim’s algorithm 
4  Dynamic Programming Approach 
 4.1 Single source shortest path- Bellman Ford 
All pair shortest path- Floyd Warshall 
0/1 knapsack 
Travelling salesperson problem 
Longest common subsequence 
5  Backtracking and Branch and bound 
 5.1 N-queen problem 
Sum of subsets 
Graph coloring 
6  String Matching Algorithms  
 6.1 The Naïve string-matching Algorithms 
The Rabin Karp algorithm 
The Knuth-Morris-Pratt algorithm 
 
 
 
 
Term Work: 
1 Term work should consist of 10 experiments. 
2 Journal must include at least 2 assignments on content of theory and practical of “Analysis of 
Algorithms” 
3 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures that satisfactory performance of 
laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. 
4 Total 25 Marks (Experiments: 15 -marks, Attendance Th eory& Prac tical: 05-marks, 
Assignments: 05-marks) 
 
Oral & Practical exam 
 Based on the entire syllabus of CSC402: Analysis of Algorithms 
 
  
 
 
Lab Code Lab Name Credit 
CSL402 Database Management system Lab 1 
 
Prerequisite: Discrete Structures 
 
Lab Objectives:  
1 To explore design and develop of relational model 
2 To present SQL and procedural interfaces to SQL comprehensively 
3 To introduce the concepts of transactions and transaction processing 
 
Lab Outcomes: At the end of the course, the students will be able to 
1 Design ER /EER diagram and convert to relational model for the realworld application. 
2 Apply DDL, DML, DCL and TCL commands 
3 Write simple and complex queries 
4 UsePL / SQL Constructs.  
5 Demonstrate the concept of concurrent transactions  execution and frontend -backend 
connectivity 
 
Suggested List of Experiments 
Sr. 
No.     
Title of Experiment  
1 Identify the case study and detail statement of problem. Design an Entity -Relationship 
(ER) / Extended Entity-Relationship (EER) Model. 
2 Mapping ER/EER to Relational schema model. 
3 Create a database using Data Definition Language (DDL) and apply integrity constraints 
for the specified System 
4 Apply DML Commands for the specified system 
5 Perform Simple queries, string manipulation operations and aggregate functions. 
6 Implement various Join operations.  
7 Perform Nested and Complex queries 
8 Perform DCL and TCL commands 
9 Implement procedure and functions  
10 Implementation of Views and Triggers. 
11 Demonstrate Database connectivity  
12 Implementation and demonstration of Transaction and Concurrency control techniques  
using locks. 
 
Term Work: 
1 Term work should consist of 10 experiments. 
2 Journal must include at least 2 assignments  on content of theory and practical of “ Database 
Management System” 
3 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures that satisfactory performance of 
laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. 
4 Total 25 Marks (Experiments: 15 -marks, Attendance Th eory& Prac tical: 05-marks, 
Assignments: 05-marks) 
 
Oral & Practical exam 
 
 Based on the entire syllabus of CSC403: Database Management System 
 
 
Prerequisite:  Knowledge on Operating system principles 
 
Lab Objectives:  
1 To gain practical experience with designing and implementing concepts of operating 
systems such as system calls, CPU scheduling, process management, memory management, 
file systems and deadlock handling using C language in Linux environment. 
2 To familiarize students with the architecture of Linux OS. 
3 To provide necessary skills for developing and debugging programs in Linux environment. 
4 To learn programmatically to implement simple operation system mechanisms 
 
Lab Outcomes: At the end of the course, the students will be able to 
1 Demonstrate basic Operating system Commands, Shell scripts, System Calls and API wrt  
Linux 
2 Implement various process scheduling algorithms and evaluate their performance. 
3 Implement and analyze concepts of synchronization and deadlocks. 
4 Implement various Memory Management techniques and evaluate their performance. 
5 Implement and analyze concepts of virtual memory.  
6 Demonstrate and analyze concepts of file management and I/O management techniques.  
 
 
Suggested List of Experiments 
Sr. 
No. 
 Content 
1  Explore Linux Commands 
1.1 Explore usage of basic Linux Commands and system calls for file, directory 
and process management. 
For eg: (mkdir, chdir, cat, ls, chown, chmod, chgrp, ps etc. 
system calls: open, read, write, close, getpid, setpid, getuid, getgid, getegid, 
geteuid. sort, grep, awk, etc.) 
2  Linux shell script 
2.1 Write shell scripts to do the following:  
a. Display OS version, release number, kernel version 
b. Display top 10 processes in descending order 
c. Display processes with highest memory usage. 
d. Display current logged in user and log name. 
Display current shell, home directory, operating system type, current path setting, 
current working directory. 
3  Linux- API 
 3.1 Implement any one basic commands of linux like ls, cp, mv and others using 
kernel APIs. 
4  Linux- Process 
 4.1 a. Create a child process in Linux using the fork system call. From the child 
process obtain the process ID of both child and parent by using getpid and 
getppid system call.  
b. Explore wait and waitpid before termination of process. 
5  Process Management: Scheduling 
Course Code Course Name Credit 
CSL403 Operating System Lab 01 
 
 5.1 a. Write a program to demonstrate the concept of non -preemptive scheduling 
algorithms. 
b. Write a program to demonstrate the concept of preemptive scheduling 
algorithms 
6  Process Management: Synchronization 
 6.1 a. Write a C program to implement solution of Producer consumer problem 
through Semaphore 
7  Process Management: Deadlock 
 7.1 a. Write a program to demonstrate the concept of deadlock avoidance through 
Banker’s Algorithm 
b. Write a program demonstrate the concept of Dining Philospher’s Problem 
8  Memory Management 
 8.1 a. Write a program to demonstrate the concept of MVT and MFT memory 
management techniques 
b. Write a program to demonstrate the concept of dynamic partitioning placement 
algorithms i.e. Best Fit, First Fit, Worst-Fit etc.  
9  Memory Management: Virtual Memory 
 9.1 a. Write a program to demonstrate the concept of demand paging for simulation 
of Virtual Memory implementation 
b. Write a program in C demonstrate the concept of page replacement policies for 
handling page faults eg: FIFO, LRU etc. 
10  File Management & I/O Management 
 10.1 a. Write a C program to simulate File allocation strategies typically sequential, 
indexed and linked files 
b. Write a C program to simulate file organization of multi -level directory 
structure. 
c. Write a program in C to do disk scheduling - FCFS, SCAN, C-SCAN 
 
Term Work: 
1 Term work should consist of 10 experiments covering all modules. 
2 Journal must include at least 2 assignments on content of theory and practical of “Database 
Management System” 
3 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures that satisfactory performance o f 
laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. 
4 Total 25 Marks (Experiments: 15 -marks, Attendance Th eory& Prac tical: 05-marks, 
Assignments: 05-marks) 
 
Oral & Practical exam 
 Based on the entire syllabus of CSC405: Operating System. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Lab Code Lab Name Credits 
CSL404 Microprocessor Lab 1 
 
Prerequisite:  Basic knowledge digital integrated circuits 
 
Lab Objectives:  
1 To emphasize on use of Assembly language program.  
2 To prepare students for advanced subjects like embedded system and IOT.  
 
Lab Outcomes: At the end of the course, the students will be able to 
1 Use appropriate instructions to program microprocessor to perform various task  
2 Develop the program in assembly/ mixed language for Intel 8086 processor  
3 Demonstrate the execution and debugging of assembly/ mixed language program  
 
Suggested List of Experiments: 
Sr. 
No.  
Title of Experiments  
1 Use of programming tools (Debug/TASM/MASM/ 8086kit) to perform basic arithmetic 
operations on 8-bit/16-bit data 
2 Code conversion (Hex to BCD and BCD to Hex)/ (ASCII to BCD and BCD to ASCII)  
3 Assembly programming for 16 -bit addition, subtraction, multiplication and division 
(menu based)  
4 Assembly program based on string instructions (overlapping/non-overlapping block 
transfer/ string search/ string length)  
5 Assembly program to display the contents of the flag register.  
6 Any Mixed Language programs. 
7 Assembly program to find the GCD/ LCM of two numbers  
8 Assembly program to sort numbers in ascending/ descending order  
9 Any program using INT 10H 
10 Assembly program to find minimum/ maximum number from a given array. 
11 Assembly Program to display a message in different color with blinking 
12 Assembly program using procedure. 
13 Assembly program using macro. 
14 Program and interfacing using 8255. 
15 Program and interfacing of ADC/ DAC/ Stepper motor. 
 
Term Work: 
1 Term work should consist of 10 experiments , out of theses at least one experiment on 
hardware interfacing. 
2 Journal must include at least 2 assignments  on content of theory and practical of 
“Microprocessor” 
3 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures that satisfactory performance of 
laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. 
4 Total 25 Marks (Experiments: 15 -marks, Attendance Th eory& Pr actical: 05-marks, 
Assignments: 05-marks) 
 
Oral & Practical exam 
 Based on the entire syllabus of CSL501and CSC501syllabus. 
 
 
Lab Code Lab Name Credit 
CSL405 Skill Base Lab Course:  Python Programming 2 
 
Prerequisite: Knowledge of some programming language like C, Java 
 
Lab Objectives:  
1 Basics of Python programming 
2 Decision Making, Data structure and Functions in Python 
3 Object Oriented Programming using Python 
4 Web framework for developing 
 
Lab Outcomes: At the end of the course, the students will be able to 
1 To understand basic concepts in python. 
2 To explore contents of files, directories and text processing with python 
3 To develop program for data structure using built in functions in python. 
4 To explore django web framework for developing python-based web application. 
5 To understand Multithreading concepts using python. 
 
Module  Detailed Content Hours 
1  Python basics 5 
 
1.1 Data types in python, Operators in python, Input and Output, Control 
statement, Arrays in python, String and Character in python, Functions, 
List and Tuples, Dictionaries Exception, Introduction to OOP, Classes, 
Objects, Interfaces, Inheritance 
 
2  Advanced Python 4 
 2.1 Files in Python, Directories, Building Modules, Packages, Text 
Processing, Regular expression in python.  
3  Data Structure in Python 3 
 3.1 Link List, Stack, Queues, Dequeues  
4  Python Integration Primer 4 
 4.1 Graphical User interface, Networking in Python, Python database 
connectivity, Introduction to Django  
5  Multithreading 4 
 5.1 Thread and Process,  Starting a thread,  Threading module, Synchronizing 
threads, Multithreaded Priority Queue  
6  NumPy and Pandas 6 
 
6.1 Creating NumPy arrays, Indexing and slicing in NumPy, creating 
multidimensional arrays, NumPy Data types, Array Attribute, Indexing 
and Slicing, Creating array views copies, Manipulating array shapes I/O 
 
 6.2 Basics of Pandas, Using multilevel series, Series and Data Frames, 
Grouping, aggregating, Merge Data Frames  
 
Textbooks: 
1 Dr. R. Nageswara Rao, “Core Python Programming”, Dreamtech Press 
2 Beginning Python: Using Python 2.6 and Python 3.1. James Payne, Wrox Publication 
3 Anurag Gupta, G. P. Biswas, “Python Programming”, McGraw-Hill 
4 E. Balagurusamy, “Introduction to computing and problem-solving using python”, 
McGraw Hill Education 
 
References: 
1 Learn Python the Hard Way, 3rd Edition, Zed Shaw's Hard Way Series 
 
2 Laura Cassell, Alan Gauld, “Python Projects”, Wrox Publication 
 
Digital material: 
1 "The Python Tutorial",http://docs.python.org/release/3.0.1/tutorial/ 
2 Beginning Perl,https://www.perl.org/books/beginning-perl/ 
3 http://spoken-tutorial.org 
4 https://starcertification.org/Certifications/Certificate/python 
 
Suggested experiments using Python: 
Sr. 
No.  
Title of Experiments  
1 Exploring basics of python like data types (strings, list, array, dictionaries, set, tuples) 
and control statements. 
2 Creating functions, classes and objects using python. Demonstrate exception handling 
and inheritance. 
3 Exploring Files and directories 
a. Python program to append data to existing file and then display the entire file 
b. Python program to count number of lines, words and characters in a file. 
c. Python program to display file available in current directory 
4 Creating GUI with python containing widgets such as labels, textbox, radio, checkboxes 
and custom dialog boxes. 
5 Menu driven program for data structure using built in function for link list, stack and  
queue. 
6 Program to demonstrate CRUD  (create, read, update and delete) operations on 
database (SQLite/ MySQL) using python. 
7 Creation of simple socket for basic information exchange between server and client. 
8 Creating web application using Django web framework to demonstrate functionality of 
user login and registration (also validating user detail using regular expression). 
9 Programs on Threading using python. 
10 Exploring basics of NumPy Methods. 
11 Program to demonstrate use of NumPy: Array objects. 
12 Program to demonstrate Data Series and Data Frames using Pandas. 
13 Program to send email and read content of URL. 
 
Term Work: 
1 Term work should consist of 12 experiments. 
2 Journal must include at least 2 assignments 
3 Mini Project based on the content of the syllabus (Group of 2-3 students) 
4 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures that satisfactory performance of 
laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. 
5 Total 25 Marks (Journal: 10-marks, Attendance: 05-marks, and Mini Project: 10-marks) 
  
 
 
Course code Course Name Credits 
CSM401 Mini Project B 02 
 
Objectives  
1 To acquaint with the process of identifying the needs and converting it into the problem.  
2 To familiarize the process of solving the problem in a group.  
3 To acquaint with the process of applying basic engineering fundamentals to attempt 
solutions to the problems.  
4 To inculcate the process of self-learning and research. 
 
Outcome: Learner will be able to…  
1 Identify problems based on societal /research needs.  
2 Apply Knowledge and skill to solve societal problems in a group.  
3 Develop interpersonal skills to work as member of a group or leader.  
4 Draw the proper inferences from available results through theoretical/ 
experimental/simulations. 
5 Analyze the impact of solutions in societal and environmental context for sustainab le 
development. 
6 Use standard norms of engineering practices  
7 Excel in written and oral communication. 
8 Demonstrate capabilities of self-learning in a group, which leads to lifelong learning.  
9 Demonstrate project management principles during project work. 
 
Guidelines for Mini Project  
1 Students shall form a group of 3 to 4 students, while forming a group shall not be allowed 
less than three or more than four students, as it is a group activity. 
2 Students should do survey and identify needs, which shall be converted into problem 
statement for mini project in consultation with faculty supervisor/head of 
department/internal committee of faculties. 
3 Students shall submit implementation plan in the form of Gantt/PERT/CPM chart, which 
will cover weekly activity of mini project. 
4 A logbook to be prepared by each group, wherein group can record weekly work progress, 
guide/supervisor can verify and record notes/comments.   
5 Faculty supervisor may give inputs to students during mini project  activity; however, focus 
shall be on self-learning.     
6 Students in a group shall understand problem effectively, propose multiple solution and 
select best possible solution in consultation with guide/ supervisor.  
7 Students shall convert the best solution into working model using various components of 
their domain areas and demonstrate.  
8 The solution to be validated with proper justification and report to be compiled in standard 
format of University of Mumbai.  
9 With the focus on the self -learning, innovation, addressing societal problems and 
entrepreneurship quality development within the students through the Mini Projects, it is 
preferable that a single project of appropriate level and quality to be carried out in two 
semesters by all the groups of the students. i.e. Mini Project 1 in semester III and I V. 
Similarly, Mini Project 2 in semesters V and VI.  
10 However, based on the individual students or group capability, with the mentor’s 
recommendations, if the proposed Mini Project adhering to the qualitative aspects 
mentioned above gets completed in od d semester, then that group can be allowed to work 
on the extension of the Mini Project with suitable improvements/modifications or a 
completely new project idea in even semester. This policy can be adopted on case by case 
basis. 
 
 
Term Work 
The review/ progress monitoring committee shall be constituted by head of departments of each 
institute. The progress of mini project to be evaluated on continuous basis, minimum two 
reviews in each semester. 
In continuous assessment focus shall also be on ea ch individual student, assessment based on 
individual’s contribution in group activity, their understanding and response to questions. 
 
Distribution of Term work marks for both semesters shall be as below: 
 
Marks 
1 Marks awarded by guide/supervisor based on logbook   10 
2 Marks awarded by review committee      10 
3 Quality of Project report       05 
 
Review / progress monitoring committee may consider following points for 
assessment based on either one year or half year project as mentioned in 
general guidelines 
 
One-year project: 
1 In first semester entire theoretical solution shall be ready, including components/system 
selection and cost analysis. Two reviews will be conducted based on presentation given by 
students group. 
• First shall be for finalization of problem   
• Second shall be on finalization of proposed solution of problem. 
2 In second semester expected work shall be procurement of component’s/systems, building 
of working prototype, testing and validation of results based on work completed in an 
earlier semester. 
• First review is based on readiness of building working prototype to be conducted. 
• Second review shall be based on poster presentation cum demonstration of working 
model in last month of the said semester.  
 
Half-year project: 
1 In this case in one semester students’ group shall complete project in all aspects including, 
• Identification of need/problem 
• Proposed final solution 
• Procurement of components/systems 
• Building prototype and testing 
2 Two reviews will be conducted for continuous assessment, 
• First shall be for finalization of problem and proposed solution 
• Second shall be for implementation and testing of solution.   
 
Assessment criteria of Mini Project. 
 
Mini Project shall be assessed based on following criteria; 
1 Quality of survey/ need identification  
2 Clarity of Problem definition based on need. 
3 Innovativeness in solutions  
4 Feasibility of proposed problem solutions and selection of best solution 
5 Cost effectiveness  
6 Societal impact 
7 Innovativeness   
 
8 Cost effectiveness and Societal impact 
9 Full functioning of working model as per stated requirements 
10 Effective use of skill sets 
11 Effective use of standard engineering norms 
12 Contribution of an individual’s as member or leader 
13 Clarity in written and oral communication 
 In one year, project , first semester evaluation may be based on first six criteria’s and 
remaining may be used for second semester evaluation of performance of students in mini 
project. 
 In case of half year project  all criteria’s in generic may be considered for evaluation of 
performance of students in mini project.    
 
Guidelines for Assessment of Mini Project Practical/Oral Examination:   
1 Report should be prepared as per the guidelines issued by the University of Mumbai.  
2 Mini Project shall be assessed through a presentation and demonstration of working model 
by the student project group to a panel of Internal and External Examiners pref erably from 
industry or research organizations having experience of more than five years approved by 
head of Institution. 
3 Students shall be motivated to publish a paper based on the work in Conferences/students 
competitions. 
 
Mini Project shall be assessed based on following points; 
1 Quality of problem and Clarity 
2 Innovativeness in solutions  
3 Cost effectiveness and Societal impact 
4 Full functioning of working model as per stated requirements 
5 Effective use of skill sets 
6 Effective use of standard engineering norms 
7 Contribution of an individual’s as member or leader 
8 Clarity in written and oral communication 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AC: 29/06/2021 
                                                         Item No: 6.15                                                       
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                            
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNIVERSITY OF MUMBAI 
 
 
 
Bachelor of Engineering 
in 
Computer Engineering 
Second Year with Effect from AY 2020-21 
Third Year with Effect from AY 2021-22 
Final Year with Effect from AY 2022-23 
(REV- 2019 ‘C’ Scheme) from Academic Year 2019 – 20 
Under 
FACULTY OF SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY 
 
(As per AICTE guidelines with effect from the academic year 2019–2020) 

         
 
 
Sr. No. Heading Particulars 
1 Title of the Course 
Third Year Engineering 
( Computer Engineering) 
 
2 
 
Eligibility for Admission 
After Passing Second Year Engineering as per 
the Ordinance 0.6243 
3 Passing Marks 40% 
4 
Ordinances / 
Regulations ( if any) Ordinance 0.6243 
 
5 
 
No. of Years / Semesters 
 
8 semesters 
 
6 
 
Level 
P.G. / U.G./ Diploma / Certificate 
(Strike out which is not applicable) 
 
7 
 
Pattern 
Yearly / Semester 
(Strike out which is not applicable ) 
 
8 
 
Status 
New / Revised 
(Strike out which is not applicable ) 
9 
To be implemented from 
Academic Year With effect from Academic Year: 2021-2022 
 
 
 Dr. S. K. Ukarande Dr Anuradha Muzumdar 
 Associate Dean Dean 
 Faculty of Science and Technology Faculty of Science and Technology 
University of Mumbai University of Mumbai 
AC: 29/06/2021 
Item No: 6.15 
UNIVERSITY OF MUMBAI 
 
 
 
Preamble 
 
To meet the challenge of ensuring excellence in engineering education, the issue of quality needs to 
be addressed, debated and taken forward in a systematic manner. Accreditation is the principal means 
of quality assurance in higher education. The major emphasis of accreditation process is to measure 
the outcomes of the program that is being accredited. In line with this Faculty of Science and 
Technology (in parti cular Engineering) of University of Mumbai has taken a lead in incorporating 
philosophy of outcome based education in the process of curriculum development. 
Faculty resolved that course objectives and course outcomes are to be clearly defined for each course, 
so that all faculty members in affiliated institutes understand the depth and approach of course to be 
taught, which will enhance learner’s learning process. Choice based Credit and grading system enables 
a much-required shift in focus from teacher -centric to learner -centric education since the workload 
estimated is based on the investment of time in learning and not in teaching. It also focuses on 
continuous evaluation which will enhance the quality of education. Credit assignment for courses is 
based on 15 weeks teaching learning process, however content of courses is to be taught in 13 weeks 
and remaining 2 weeks to be utilized for revision, guest lectures, coverage of content beyond syllabus 
etc. 
There was a concern that the earlier revised curriculu m more focused on providing information and 
knowledge across various domains of the said program, which led to heavily loading of students in 
terms of direct contact hours. In this regard, faculty of science and technology resolved that to 
minimize the burden of contact hours, total credits of entire program will be of 170, wherein focus is 
not only on providing knowledge but also on building skills, attitude and self learning. Therefore in 
the present curriculum skill based laboratories and mini projects a re made mandatory across all 
disciplines of engineering in second and third year of programs, which will definitely facilitate self 
learning of students. The overall credits and approach of curriculum proposed in the present revision 
is in line with AICTE model curriculum. 
The present curriculum will be implemented for Second Year of Engineering from the academic year 
2021-22. Subsequently this will be carried forward for Third Year and Final Year Engineering in the 
academic years 2022-23, 2023-24, respectively. 
 
 
 
 
 Dr. S. K. Ukarande Dr Anuradha Muzumdar 
 Associate Dean Dean 
 Faculty of Science and Technology Faculty of Science and Technology 
University of Mumbai University of Mumbai 
ncorporation and Implementation of Online Contents from 
NPTEL/ Swayam Platform 
 
 
 
  The curriculum revision is mainly focused on knowledge component, skill based activities and 
project based activities. Self learning opportunities are provided to learners. In the revision process 
this time in particular Revised syllabus of ‘C’ scheme wherever possible additional resource links 
of platforms such as NPTEL, Swayam are appropriately provided. In an earlier revision of 
curriculum in the year 2012 and 2016 in Revised scheme ‘A' and ‘B' respectively, efforts were 
made to use online co ntents more appropriately as additional learning materials to enhance 
learning of students. 
In the current revision based on the recommendation of AICTE model curriculum overall credits 
are reduced to 171, to provide opportunity of self learning to learner . Learners are now getting 
sufficient time for self learning either through online courses or additional projects for enhancing 
their knowledge and skill sets. 
The Principals/ HoD’s/ Faculties of all the institute are required to motivate and encourage learners 
to use additional online resources available on platforms such as NPTEL/ Swayam. Learners can 
be advised to take up online courses, on successful completion they are required to submit 
certification for the same. This will definitely help learners to  facilitate their enhanced learning 
based on their interest. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Dr. S. K. Ukarande  Dr Anuradha Muzumdar 
 Associate Dean Dean 
 Faculty of Science and Technology Faculty of Science and Technology 
 University of Mumbai University of Mumbai 
 
Preface by Board of Studies in 
Computer Engineering 
Dear Students and Teachers, we, the members of Board of Studies Computer 
Engineering, are very happy to present Third Year Computer Engineering syllabus 
effective from the Academic Year 2021 -22 (REV-2019’C’ Scheme). W e are sure you 
will find this syllabus interesting, challenging, fulfill certain needs and expectations. 
Computer Engineering is one of the most sought -after courses amongst engineering 
students. The syllabus needs revision in terms of preparing the studen t for the 
professional scenario relevant and suitable to cater the needs of industry in present day 
context. The syllabus focuses on providing a sound theoretical background as well as 
good practical exposure to students in the relevant areas. It is intend ed to provide a 
modern, industry -oriented education in Computer Engineering. It aims at producing 
trained professionals who can successfully acquainted with the demands of the industry 
worldwide. They obtain skills and experience in up -to-date the knowledg e to analysis, 
design, implementation, validation, and documentation of computer software and 
systems. 
The revised syllabus is finalized through a brain storming session attended by Heads of 
Departments or senior faculty from the Department of Computer Eng ineering of the 
affiliated Institutes of the Mumbai University. The syllabus falls in line with the 
objectives of affiliating University, AICTE, UGC, and various accreditation agencies by 
keeping an eye on the technological developments, innovations, and i ndustry 
requirements. 
 
The salient features of the revised syllabus are: 
1. Reduction in credits to 170 is implemented to ensure that students have more 
time for extracurricular activities, innovations, and research. 
2. The department Optional Courses will provide the relevant specialization 
within the branch to a student. 
3. Introduction of Skill Based Lab and Mini Project to showcase their talent by 
doing innovative projects that strengthen their profile and increases the 
chance of employability. 
4. Students are encouraged to take up part of course through MOOCs platform 
SWAYAM 
We would like to place on record our gratefulness to the faculty, students, industry 
experts and stakeholders for having helped us in the formulation of this syllabus. 
Board of Studies in Computer Engineering 
Prof. Sunil Bhirud : Chairman  
Prof. Sunita Patil : Member 
Prof. Leena Raga : Member 
Prof. Subhash Shinde : Member 
Prof. Meera Narvekar : Member 
Prof. Suprtim Biswas : Member  
Prof. Sudhir Sawarkar : Member  
Prof. Dayanand Ingle : Member 
Prof. Satish Ket : Member 
 
Program Structure for Third Year Computer Engineering  
UNIVERSITY OF MUMBAI (With Effect from 2021-2022) 
Semester V 
Course 
Code Course Name 
Teaching Scheme 
(Contact Hours) Credits Assigned 
Theory Pract. Theory Pract. Total 
CSC501 Theoretical Computer 
Science 3 -- 3 -- 3 
CSC502 Software Engineering 3 -- 3  3 
CSC503 Computer Network 3 -- 3 -- 3 
CSC504 Data Warehousing & 
Mining 3 -- 3 -- 3 
CSDLO501x Department  Level 
Optional Course- 1 3 -- 3 -- 3 
CSL501 Software Engineering 
Lab -- 2 -- 1 1 
CSL502 Computer Network Lab -- 2 -- 1 1 
CSL503 Data Warehousing & 
Mining Lab -- 2 -- 1 1 
CSL504 Business Comm. & 
Ethics II -- 2*+2 -- 2 2 
CSM501 Mini Project:  2 A -- 4$ -- 2 2 
Total 15 14 15 07 22 
Course 
Code Course Name 
Examination Scheme 
Theory Term 
Work 
Pract
&oral Total 
Internal 
Assessment  
End 
Sem 
Exam 
Exam. 
Duration 
(in Hrs)  
   
Test
1 
Test
2 Avg      
CSC501 Theoretical Computer 
Science 20 20 20 80 3 25 -- 125 
CSC502 Software Engineering 20 20 20 80 3 -- -- 100 
CSC503 Computer Network 20 20 20 80 3 -- -- 100 
CSC504 Data Warehousing & 
Mining 20 20 20 80 3 -- -- 100 
CSDLO501x Department  Level 
Optional Course -1 20 20 20 80 3 -- -- 100 
CSL501 Software Engineering Lab -- -- -- -- -- 25 25 50 
CSL502 Computer Network Lab -- -- -- -- -- 25 25 50 
CSL503 Data Warehousing & 
Mining Lab -- -- -- -- -- 25 25 50 
CSL504 Business Comm. & Ethics 
II -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- 50 
CSM501 Mini Project : 2A -- -- -- -- -- 25 25 50 
Total -- -- 100 400 -- 175 100 775 
* Theory class to be conducted for full class and $ indicates workload of Learner (Not Faculty), students 
can form groups with minimum 2(Two) and not more than 4(Four). Faculty Load: 1hour per week per 
four groups.   
 
Program Structure for Computer Engineering  
UNIVERSITY OF MUMBAI (With Effect from 2021-2022) 
Department Optional Courses  
Department Level 
Optional Courses Semester Code & Course 
 
Department Level 
Optional Course -1 
 
V 
CSDLO5011: Probabilistic Graphical 
Models 
CSDLO5012: Internet Programming  
CSDLO5013: Advance Database 
Management System 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course Code Course  Name Credits 
CSC501          Theoretical Computer Science 3 
 
Prerequisite: Discrete Structures  
Course Objectives:  
1. Acquire conceptual understanding of fundamentals of grammars and languages. 
2. Build concepts of theoretical design of deterministic and non-deterministic finite 
automata and push down automata. 
3. Develop understanding of different types of Turing machines and applications. 
4. Understand the concept of Undecidability. 
Course Outcomes: At the end of the course, the students will be able to 
1. Understand concepts   of   Theoretical Computer Science, difference and equivalence 
of DFA and NFA  , languages described by finite automata and regular expressions. 
2. Design Context free grammer, pushdown automata to recognize the language. 
3. Develop an understanding of computation through Turing Machine. 
4. Acquire fundamental understanding of decidability and undecidability. 
 
Module 
No. 
Unit 
No. 
Topics Theory 
Hrs. 
1.0  Basic Concepts and Finite Automata 09 
 1.1 Importance of TCS, Alphabets, Strings, Languages, Closure 
properties, Finite Automata (FA) and Finite State machine 
(FSM). 
 1.2 Deterministic Finite Automata (DFA) and    Nondeterministic 
Finite Automata (NFA): Definitions,  transition diagrams and 
Language recognizers, Equivalence between NFA with and 
without ε- transitions, NFA to DFA Conversion, Minimization 
of DFA, FSM with output: Moore and Mealy machines, 
Applications and limitations of FA. 
2.0  Regular Expressions and Languages 07 
 2.1 Regular Expression (RE),Equivalence of RE and FA, Arden‘s 
Theorem, RE Applications 
 2.2 Regular Language (RL), Closure properties of RLs, Decision 
properties of RLs, Pumping lemma for RLs. 
3.0  Grammars 08 
 3.1 Grammars and Chomsky hierarchy 
3.2 Regular Grammar (RG), Equivalence of Left and Right 
linear grammar, Equivalence of RG and FA. 
 
3.3 Context Free Grammars (CFG) 
Definition, Sentential forms, Leftmost and Rightmost 
derivations, Parse tree, Ambiguity, Simplification and 
Applications, Normal Forms:   Chomsky Normal Forms 
(CNF) and Greibach    Normal   Forms (GNF), Context Free 
language (CFL) - Pumping lemma, Closure properties. 
4.0  Pushdown Automata(PDA) 04 
 4.1 Definition, Language of PDA,PDA as generator, decider and 
acceptor of CFG, Deterministic PDA , Non-Deterministic 
PDA, Application of PDA. 
5.0  Turing Machine (TM) 09 
 5.1 Definition, Design of TM as generator, decider and acceptor, 
Variants of TM: Multitrack, Multitape, Universal TM, 
Applications, Power and Limitations of TMs. 
6.0  Undecidability 02 
 6.1 Decidability and Undecidability, Recursive and Recursively 
Enumerable Languages, Halting Problem, Rice‘s Theorem, 
Post Correspondence Problem. 
 Total 39 
 
Text Books: 
1. John E. Hopcroft, Rajeev Motwani, Jeffer y D. Ullman, “Introduction to Automata 
Theory, Languages and Computation”, 3rd Edition, Pearson Education, 2008.  
2. Michael Sipser, “Theory of Computation”, 3rd Edition, Cengage learning. 2013. 
3. Vivek Kulkarni, “Theory of Computation”,   Illustrated Edition,  Oxford University 
Press, (12 April 2013) India. 
Reference Books: 
1. J. C. Martin, “Introduction to Languages and the Theory of Computation”, 4th Edition, 
Tata McGraw Hill Publication, 2013. 
2. Kavi Mah esh, “Theory of Computation: A Problem Solving Approach” , Kindle 
Edition, Wiley-India, 2011. 
 
Assessment: 
Internal Assessment: 
1. Assessment consists of two class tests of  20 marks each. 
2. The first class test is to be conducted when approx. 40% syll abus is completed and   
second class test when   additional 40% syllabus is completed. 
3. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
Term work: 
1. Term Work should consist of at least 06 assignments (at least one assignment on 
each module). 
 
2. Assignment  (best  5 assignments) 20 marks 
Attendance     5 marks 
3. It is recommended to use   JFLAP software (www.jflap.org) for better teaching and 
learning processes. 
 
Useful Links: 
1. www.jflap.org 
2. https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106/104/106104028/ 
3. https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106/104/106104148/ 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1. Question paper will comprise of 6 questions, each carrying 20 marks. 
2. The students need to solve total 4 questions. 
3. Question No.1 will be compulsory and based on entire syllabus. 
4. Remaining questions (Q.2 to Q.6) will cover  all the modules of syllabus. 
 
Course Code: Course Title Credit 
CSC502 Software Engineering 3 
 
Prerequisite: Object Oriented Programming with Java , Python Programming 
Course Objectives: 
1 To provide the knowledge of software engineering discipline. 
2 To apply analysis, design and testing principles to software project development. 
3 To demonstrate and evaluate real world software projects.  
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of course, learners will be able to: 
1 Identify requirements & assess the process models. 
2 Plan, schedule and track the progress of the projects. 
3 Design the software projects. 
4 Do testing of software project. 
5 Identify risks, manage the change to assure quality in software projects. 
 
 
Module  Content Hrs 
1  Introduction To Software Engineering and Process Models 7 
 1.1 Software Engineering-process framework, the Capability Maturity Model  
(CMM), Advanced Trends in Software Engineering 
 
1.2 Prescriptive Process Models: The Waterfall, Incremental 
Process Models, Evolutionary Process Models: RAD & Spiral 
1.3  Agile process model: Extreme Programming (XP), Scrum, Kanban  
2  Software Requirements Analysis and Modeling 4 
 2.1 Requirement Engineering, Requirement Modeling, Data flow diagram, 
Scenario based model 
 
2.2 Software Requirement Specification document format(IEEE) 
3  Software Estimation Metrics 7 
3.1 Software Metrics, Software Project Estimation (LOC, FP, COCOMO II )  
3.2 Project Scheduling & Tracking 
4  Software Design 7 
 4.1 Design Principles & Concepts  
4.2 Effective Modular Design, Cohesion and Coupling, Architectural design  
5  Software Testing 7 
 5.1 Unit testing, Integration testing, Validation testing, System testing  
5.2 Testing Techniques, white-box testing: Basis path, Control structure testing 
black-box testing: Graph based, Equivalence, Boundary Value 
5.3 Types of Software Maintenance, Re-Engineering, Reverse Engineering 
6  Software Configuration Management, Quality Assurance and 
Maintenance 
7 
 6.1 Risk Analysis & Management:  Risk Mitigation, Monitoring and 
Management Plan (RMMM). 
 
6.2 Quality Concepts and Software Quality assurance Metrics, Formal Technical 
Reviews, Software Reliability 
6.3 The Software Configuration Management (SCM) ,Version Control and 
Change Control 
   39 
 
 
 
Textbooks: 
1 Roger Pressman, “Software Engineering: A Practitioner‘s Approach”, 9th edition , 
McGraw-Hill Publications, 2019 
2 Ian Sommerville, “Software Engineering”, 9th edition, Pearson Education, 2011 
3 Ali Behfrooz and Fredeick J. Hudson, "Software Engineering Fundamentals", Oxford 
University Press, 1997 
4 Grady Booch, James Rambaugh, Ivar Jacobson, “The unified modeling language user 
guide”, 2nd edition, Pearson Education, 2005 
References: 
1 Pankaj Jalote, "An integrated approach to Software Engineering", 3rd edition, Springer, 
2005 
2 Rajib Mall, "Fundamentals of Software Engineering", 5th edition, Prentice Hall India, 2014 
3 Jibitesh Mishra and Ashok Mohanty, “Software Engineering”, Pearson , 2011 
4 Ugrasen Suman, “Software Engineering – Concepts and Practices”, Cengage Learning, 
2013  
5 Waman S Jawadekar, “Software Engineering principles and practice”, McGraw Hill 
Education, 2004 
 
 
Assessment: 
Internal Assessment: 
Assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The first-class test is to be conducted when 
approx. 40% syllabus is completed and the second-class test when an additional 40% syllabus is 
completed. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 Question paper will comprise a total of six questions. 
2 All question carries equal marks 
3 Only Four questions need to be solved. 
4 In question paper weightage of each module will be proportional to number of respective 
lecture hours as mentioned in the syllabus. 
 
Useful Links 
1 https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106/105/106105182/ 
2 https://onlinecourses.nptel.ac.in/noc19_cs69/preview 
3 https://www.mooc-list.com/course/software-engineering-introduction-edx 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Course Code: Course Title Credit 
CSC503 Computer Network 3 
 
Prerequisite: None 
Course Objectives: 
1 To introduce concepts and fundamentals of data communication and computer networks. 
2 To explore the inter-working of various layers of OSI. 
3 To explore the issues and challenges of protocols design while delving into TCP/IP protocol 
suite. 
4 To assess the strengths and weaknesses of various routing algorithms. 
5 To understand various transport layer and application layer protocols. 
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of course, learner will be able to 
1 Demonstrate the concepts of data communication at physical layer and compare ISO - OSI 
model with TCP/IP model. 
2 Explore different design issues at data link layer. 
3 Design the network using IP addressing and sub netting / supernetting schemes. 
4 Analyze transport layer protocols and congestion control algorithms. 
5 Explore protocols at application  layer 
 
Module   Content Hrs 
1  Introduction to Networking 4 
 1.1 Introduction  to   computer   network,   network  application,   network 
software and hardware components (Interconnection networking devices), 
Network topology, protocol hierarchies, design issues for the layers, 
connection oriented and connectionless  services 
 
 1.2 Reference models:  Layer details of OSI, TCP/IP models. Communication 
between layers. 
 
2  Physical Layer 3 
 2.1 Introduction to Communication Electromagnetic Spectrum  
 2.2 Guided Transmission Media: Twisted pair, Coaxial, Fiber optics.   
3  Data Link Layer 8 
 3.1 DLL Design Issues (Services, Framing, Error Control, Flow Control), 
Error Detection and Correction(Hamming Code, CRC, Checksum) ,  
Elementary Data Link protocols , Stop and Wait, Sliding Window(Go 
Back N, Selective Repeat) 
 
  
3.2 
Medium Access Control sublayer 
Channel Allocation problem, Multiple access Protocol( Aloha, Carrier 
Sense Multiple Access (CSMA/CD) 
 
4  Network layer 12 
 4.1 Network Layer design issues, Communication Primitives: Unicast, 
Multicast, Broadcast. IPv4 Addressing (classfull and classless), 
Subnetting, Supernetting design problems ,IPv4 Protocol, Network 
Address Translation (NAT), IPv6 
 
  
4.2 Routing algorithms : Shortest Path (Dijkastra‘s), Link state routing, 
Distance Vector Routing 
 
 4.3 Protocols - ARP,RARP, ICMP, IGMP  
 
 4.4 Congestion control algorithms: Open loop congestion control, Closed 
loop congestion control, QoS parameters, Token & Leaky bucket algorithms 
 
5  Transport Layer 6 
 5.1 The Transport Service: Transport service primitives, Berkeley Sockets, 
Connection management (Handshake), UDP, TCP, TCP state transition, 
TCP timers 
 
 5.2 TCP Flow control (sliding Window), TCP Congestion Control: Slow Start  
6  Application Layer 6 
 6.1 DNS: Name Space, Resource Record and Types of Name Server.  HTTP, 
SMTP, Telnet, FTP, DHCP 
 
 
Textbooks: 
1 A.S. Tanenbaum, Computer Networks,4th edition Pearson Education 
2 B.A. Forouzan, Data Communications and Networking, 5th edition, TMH  
3 James F. Kurose, Keith W. Ross, Computer Networking, A Top-Down Approach 
Featuring the Internet,6th edition, Addison Wesley 
References: 
1 S.Keshav,An  Engineering Approach To  Computer Networking, Pearson 
2 Natalia Olifer & Victor Olifer, Computer Networks: Principles, Technologies & 
Protocols for Network Design, Wiley India, 2011. 
3 Larry L.Peterson, Bruce S.Davie, Computer  Networks:  A Systems  Approach, Second 
Edition ,The Morgan Kaufmann Series in Networking 
 
Assessment: 
Internal Assessment: 
Assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The first class test is to be conducted 
when approx. 40% syllabus is completed and second class test when additional 40% syllabus is 
completed. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 Question paper will comprise of total six questions. 
2 All question carries equal marks 
3 Questions will be mixed in nature (for example supposed Q.2 has part (a) from module 3 
then part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4 Only Four question need to be solved. 
5 In question paper weightage of each module will be proportional to number of respective 
lecture hours as mention in the syllabus. 
 
Useful Links  
1 https://www.netacad.com/courses/networking/networking-essentials 
2 https://www.coursera.org/learn/computer-networking 
3 https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106/105/106105081 
4 https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-to-networking 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course Code: Course Title Credit 
CSC504 Data Warehousing and Mining 3 
 
Prerequisite: Database Concepts 
Course Objectives: 
1.  To identify the significance of Data Warehousing and Mining. 
2.  To analyze data, choose relevant models and algorithms for respective applications. 
3.  To study web data mining. 
4.  To develop research interest towards advances in data mining. 
Course Outcomes: At the end of the course, the student will be able to 
1.  Understand data warehouse fundamentals and design data warehouse with dimensional 
modelling and apply OLAP operations. 
2.  Understand data mining principles and perform Data preprocessing and Visualization. 
3.  Identify appropriate data mining algorithms to solve real world problems.  
4.  Compare and evaluate different data mining techniques like classification, prediction, clustering 
and association rule mining 
5.  Describe complex information and social networks with respect to web mining. 
 
Module  Content Hrs 
1 Data Warehousing Fundamentals 8 
 Introduction   to Data Warehouse, Data warehouse architecture, Data warehouse 
versus Data Marts, E -R Modeling versus  Dimensional Modeling, Information  
Package Diagram, Data Warehouse Schemas; Star Schema, Snowflake Schema, 
Factless Fact Table, Fact Constellation Schema. Update to the dimension tables.  
Major steps in ETL process, OLTP versus OLAP, OLAP operations: Slice, Dice, 
Rollup, Drilldown and Pivot.  
 
2 Introduction to Data Mining, Data Exploration and Data Pre-processing 8 
 Data Mining Task Primitives, Architecture, KDD process, Issues in Data Mining, 
Applications of Data Mining, Data Exploration: Types of Attrib utes, Statistical 
Description of Data, Data Visualization , Data Preprocessing: Descriptive data 
summarization, Cleaning, Integration & transformation, Data reduction,  Data 
Discretization and Concept hierarchy generation. 
 
3 Classification  6 
 Basic Conce pts, Decision Tree Induction,  Naïve Bayesian Classification, 
Accuracy and Error measures, Evaluating the Accuracy of a Classifier: Holdout 
& Random Subsampling, Cross Validation, Bootstrap. 
 
4 Clustering 6 
 Types of data in Cluster analysis , Partitioning Methods (k-Means, k-Medoids), 
Hierarchical Methods (Agglomerative, Divisive). 
 
5 Mining frequent patterns and associations 6 
 Market Basket Analysis, Frequent Item sets, Closed Item sets, and Association 
Rule, Frequent Pattern Mining, Apriori Algorithm, Association Rule Generation, 
Improving the Efficiency of Apriori, Mining Frequent Itemsets without candidate 
generation, Introduction to Mining Multilevel Association Rules and Mining 
Multidimensional Association Rules. 
 
 
6 Web Mining 5 
 Introduction, Web Content Mining: Crawlers, Harvest System, Virtual Web View, 
Personalization, Web Structure Mining: Page Rank, Clever, Web Usage Mining. 
 
 
Textbooks: 
1 Paulraj Ponniah, “ Data Warehousing: Fundamentals for IT Professionals”, Wiley India. 
2 Han, Kamber, “Data Mining Concepts and Techniques”, Morgan Kaufmann 2nd edition. 
3 M.H. Dunham, “Data Mining Introductory and Advanced Topics”, Pearson Education. 
References: 
1 Reema Theraja, “Data warehousing”, Oxford University Press 2009. 
2 Pang-Ning Tan, Michael Steinbach and Vipin Kumar, “Introduction to Data Mining”, 
Pearson Publisher 2nd  edition. 
3 Ian H. Witten, Eibe Frank and Mark A. Hall, “Data Mining”, Morgan Kaufmann 3rd edition.  
 
Assessment: 
Internal Assessment: 
Assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The first-class test is to be conducted when 
approx. 40% syllabus is completed and second -class test when additional 40% syllabus is 
completed. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 Question paper will comprise of total six questions. 
2 All question carries equal marks 
3 Questions will be mixed in nature (for example, If Q.2 part (a) from module 3 then part (b)  
can be from any module other than module 3) 
4 Only Four questions need to be solved. 
5 In question paper weightage of each module will be proportional to the number of respective 
lecture hours as mentioned in the syllabus. 
Useful Links  
1 https://onlinecourses.nptel.ac.in/noc20_cs12/preview 
2 https://www.coursera.org/specializations/data-mining 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course Code: Course Title Credit 
CSDLO5011 Probabilistic Graphical Models 3 
 
Prerequisite: Engineering Mathematics, Discrete Structure 
Course Objectives: 
1 To give comprehensive introduction of probabilistic graphical models 
2 To make  inferences, learning, actions and decisions while applying these models 
3 To introduce real-world trade-offs when using probabilistic graphical models in  practice 
4 To develop the knowledge and skills necessary to apply these models to solve real world 
problems. 
Course Outcomes: At the end of the course, the student will be able to 
1 Understand basic concepts of probabilistic graphical modelling. 
2 Model and extract inference from  various graphical models  like Bayesian Networks, Markov 
Models 
3 Perform learning and  take actions and decisions using probabilistic graphical models 
4 Represent real world problems using graphical models; design inference algorithms; and learn 
the structure of the graphical model from data. 
5 Design real life applications using probabilistic graphical models. 
  
Module   Content Hrs 
1.   Introduction to Probabilistic Graphical Modeling 5 
 1.1 Introduction to Probability Theory: 
Probability Theory, Basic Concepts in Probability, Random 
Variables and Joint Distribution, Independence and Conditional 
Independence, Continuous Spaces, Expectation and Variances 
 
  1.2 Introduction to Graphs: Nodes and Edges, Subgraphs, Paths and 
Trails, Cycles and Loops 
 
  1.3 Introduction to Probabilistic Graph Models: Bayesian Network, 
Markov Model, Hidden Markov Model 
 
  1.4 Applications of PGM  
2.   Bayesian Network Model and Inference 10 
  2.1 Directed Graph Model: Bayesian Network-Exploiting Independence 
Properties, Naive Bayes Model,  Bayesian Network Model, 
Reasoning Patterns, Basic Independencies in Bayesian Networks, 
Bayesian Network Semantics, Graphs and Distributions. Modelling: 
Picking variables, Picking Structure, Picking Probabilities , D -
separation 
 
  2.2 Local Probabilistic Models: Tabular CPDs, Deterministic CPDs, 
Context Specific CPDs, Generalized Linear Models. 
 
 
 2.3 Exact inference variable elimination: Analysis of C omplexity, 
Variable Elimination, Conditioning, Inference with Structured CPDs. 
 
3.   Markov Network Model and Inference 8 
 3.1 Undirected Graph Model : Markov Model -Markov Network, 
Parameterization of Markov Network, Gibb's distribution, Reduced 
Markov N etwork, Markov Network Independencies, From 
Distributions to Graphs, Fine Grained Parameterization, Over 
Parameterization 
 
  3.2 Exact inference variable elimination: Graph Theoretic Analysis for 
Variable Elimination, Conditioning 
 
4.   Hidden Markov Model and Inference 6 
 4.1 Template Based Graph Model : HMM- Temporal Models, Template 
Variables and Template Factors, Directed Probabilistic Models, 
Undirected Representation, Structural Uncertainty. 
 
5.  Learning and Taking Actions and Decisions 6 
 5.1 Learning Graphical Models: Goals of Learning, Density Estimation, 
Specific Prediction Tasks, Knowledge Discovery.  Learning as 
Optimization: Empirical Risk, over fitting, Generalization, 
Evaluating Generalization Performance, Selecting a Learning 
Procedure, Goodness of fit, Learning Tasks. Parameter Estimation: 
Maximum Likelihood Estimation, MLE for Bayesian Networks 
 
 5.2 Causality: Conditioning and Intervention, Correlation and Causation, 
Causal Models, Structural Causal Identifiability, Mechanisms and 
Response Variables, Learning Causal Models. Utilities and 
Decisions: Maximizing Expected Utility, Utility Curves, Utility 
Elicitation. Structured Decision Problems: Decision Tree 
 
6.   Applications 4 
  6.1 Application of Bayesian Networks: Classification, F orecasting, 
Decision Making 
 
 6.2 Application of Markov Models: Cost Effectiveness Analysis, 
Relational Markov Model and its Applications, Application in 
Portfolio Optimization 
 
 6.3 Application of HMM: Speech Recognition, Part of Speech Tagging, 
Bioinformatics. 
 
  
Textbooks: 
1. Daphne Koller and Nir Friedman , "Probabilistic Graphical Models: Principles 
and Techniques”, Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press, 2009 (ISBN 978-0-262-0139-
2). 
2. David Barber, "Bayesian Reasoning and Machine Learning", Cambridge 
University Press, 1st edition, 2011. 
References: 
 
1. Finn Jensen and Thomas Nielsen, "Bayesian Networks and Decision Graphs 
(Information Science and Statistics )", 2nd Edition,  Springer, 2007. 
2. Kevin P. Murphy, "Machine Learning: A Probabilistic Perspective", MIT Press, 
2012. 
3. Martin Wainwright and Michael Jordan, M., "Graphical Models, Exponential 
Families, and Variational Inference", 2008. 
  
Assessment: 
 Internal Assessment: 
Assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The first class test is to be m 
onducted when approx. 40% syllabus is completed and second class test when additional 
40% syllabus is completed. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
 End Semester Theory Examination: 
1. Question paper will comprise of  total six questions. 
2. All question carries equal marks 
3. Questions will be mixed in nature (for example supposed Q.2 has part (a) from 
module 3 then part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4. Only Four question need to be solved. 
5. In question paper weightage of each module will be proportional to number of 
respective lecture hours as mention in the syllabus. 
 Useful Links 
1. https://www.coursera.org/specializations/probabilistic-graphical-models 
2. https://www.mooc-list.com/tags/probabilistic-graphical-models 
3. https://scholarship.claremont.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?referer=https://www.google.c
om/&httpsredir=1&article=2690&context=cmc_theses 
4. https://www.upgrad.com/blog/bayesian-networks/ 
5. https://www.utas.edu.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0009/588474/TR_14_BNs_a_resour
ce_guide.pdf 
6. https://math.libretexts.org/Bookshelves/Applied_Mathematics/Book%3A_Applied_
Finite_Mathematics_(Sekhon_and_Bloom)/10%3A_Markov_Chains/10.02%3A_A
pplications_of_Markov_Chains/10.2.01%3A_Applications_of_Markov_Chains_(E
xercises) 
7.  https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-43742-2_24 
8. https://homes.cs.washington.edu/~pedrod/papers/kdd02a.pdf 
9. https://core.ac.uk/download/pdf/191938826.pdf 
10. https://cs.brown.edu/research/pubs/theses/ugrad/2005/dbooksta.pdf 
 
11. https://web.ece.ucsb.edu/Faculty/Rabiner/ece259/Reprints/tutorial%20on%20hmm
%20and%20applications.pdf 
12. https://mi.eng.cam.ac.uk/~mjfg/mjfg_NOW.pdf 
13. http://bioinfo.au.tsinghua.edu.cn/member/jgu/pgm/materials/Chapter3-
LocalProbabilisticModels.pdf 
  
Suggested List of Experiments: 
Sr. No Experiment 
1. Experiment on Probability Theory 
2. Experiment on Graph Theory 
3. Experiment on Bayesian Network Modelling 
4. Experiment on Markov Chain Modeling 
5. Experiment on HMM 
6. Experiment on Maximum Likelihood Estimation 
7. Decision Making using Decision Trees 
8. Learning with Optimization 
** Suggestion: Laboratory work based on above syllabus can be incorporated along with 
mini project in CSM501: Mini-Project. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course Code: Course Title Credit 
CSDLO5012 Internet Programming 3 
 
Prerequisite: Data Structures 
Course Objectives: 
1 To get familiar with the basics of Internet Programming. 
2 To acquire knowledge and skills for creation of web site considering both client and server-
side programming 
3 To gain ability to develop responsive web applications 
4 To explore different web extensions and web services standards 
5 To learn characteristics of RIA 
6 To learn React js 
Course Outcomes:  
1 Implement interactive web page(s) using HTML and CSS. 
2 Design a responsive web site using JavaScript 
3  Demonstrate database connectivity using JDBC 
4 Demonstrate Rich Internet Application using Ajax 
5 Demonstrate and differentiate various Web Extensions. 
6 Demonstrate web application using Reactive Js 
 
Module   Content Hrs 
1  Introduction to Web Technology 10 
 1.1 Web Essentials : Clients, Servers and Communication, The Internet, 
Basic Internet protocols, World wide web, HTTP Request Message, 
HTTP Response Message, Web Clients, Web Servers  
HTML5 – fundamental syntax and semantics, Tables, Lists, Image , 
HTML5 control elements, Semantic elements, Drag and Drop, Audio – 
Video controls  
CSS3 – Inline, embedded and external style sheets – Rule cascading, 
Inheritance, Backgrounds, Border Images, Colors, Shadows, Text, 
Transformations, Transitions, Animation, Basics of Bootstrap. 
 
2  Front End Development 7 
 2.1 Java Script: An introduction to JavaScript –JavaScript DOM Model -
Date and Objects -Regular Expressions - Exception Handling -
Validation-Built-in objects-Event Handling, DHTML with JavaScript- 
JSON introduction – Syntax – Function Files – Http Request –SQL. 
 
3.   Back End Development 7 
 3.1 Servlets: Java Servlet Architecture, Servlet Life Cycle, Form GET and 
POST actions, Session Handling, Understanding Cook ies, Installing 
and Configuring Apache Tomcat Web Server, 
Database Connectivity: JDBC perspectives, JDBC program example  
JSP: Understanding Java Server Pages, JSP Standard Tag Library 
(JSTL), Creating HTML forms by embedding JSP code. 
 
4  Rich Internet Application (RIA) 4 
 4.1 Characteristics of RIA, 
Introduction to AJAX : AJAX design basics, AJAX vs Traditional 
Approach, Rich User Interface using Ajax, jQuery framework with 
AJAX. 
 
5  Web Extension: PHP and XML 6 
 5.1 XML –DTD (Document Type Definition) , XML Schema, Document 
Object Model, Presenting XML, Using XML Parsers: DOM and SAX, 
XSL-eXtensible Stylesheet Language 
 
 
 5.2 Introduction to PHP- Data types, control structures, built in functions, 
building web applications using PHP - tracking users, PHP  and 
MySQLdatabase connectivity with example. 
 
6  React js 5 
 6.1 Introduction, React features, App “Hello World” Application, 
Introduction to JSX, Simple Application using JSX. 
 
   39 
 
Textbooks: 
1 Ralph Moseley, M.T. Savliya, “Developing Web Applica tions”, Willy India, Second 
Edition, ISBN: 978-81-265-3867-6 
2  “Web Technology Black Book”, Dremtech Press, First Edition, 978-7722-997 
3 Robin Nixon, "Learning PHP, MySQL, JavaScript, CSS & HTML5" Third Edition, 
O'REILLY, 2014. 
(http://www.ebooksbucket.com/uploads/itprogramming/javascript/Learning_PHP_MySQ
L_Javascript_CSS_HTML5__Robin_Nixon_3e.pdf)  
4 Dana Moore, Raymond Budd, Edward Benson, Professional Rich Internet Applications: 
AJAX and Beyond Wiley publications. https://ebooks-it.org/0470082801-ebook.htm 
5. Alex Banks and Eve Porcello, Learning React Functional Web Development with React 
and Redux,OREILLY, First Edition 
References: 
1 Harvey & Paul Deitel& Associates, Harvey Deitel and Abbey Deitel, Internet and World 
Wide Web - How To Program, Fifth Edition, Pearson Education, 2011.   
2 Achyut S Godbole and AtulKahate, ―Web Technologies, Second Edition, Tata McGraw 
Hill, 2012. 
3 Thomas A Powell, Fritz Schneider, ―JavaScript: The Complete Reference, Third Edition, 
Tata McGraw Hill, 2013 
4 David Flanagan, ―JavaScript: The Definitive Guide, Sixth Edition, O'Reilly Media, 2011  
5 Steven Holzner ―The Complete Reference - PHP, Tata McGraw Hill, 2008  
6 Mike Mcgrath―PHP & MySQL in easy Steps, Tata McGraw Hill, 2012. 
 
Assessment: 
Internal Assessment: 
Assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The firstclass test is to be conducted 
when approx. 40% syllabus is completed and the secondclass test when an additional 40% 
syllabus is completed. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 Question paper will comprise a total of six questions. 
2 All question carries equal marks 
3 Questions will be mixed in nature (for example supposed Q.2 has part (a)  from module 3 
then part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4 Only Four questions need to be solved. 
5 In question paper weightage of each module will be proportional to number of respective 
lecture hours as mentioned in the syllabus. 
 
Useful Links 
1 https://books.goalkicker.com/ReactJSBook/ 
2 https://www.guru99.com/reactjs-tutorial.html 
3 www.nptelvideos.in 
4 www.w3schools.com 
5 https://spoken-tutorial.org/ 
6 www.coursera.org 
The following list can be used as a guideline for mini project: 
 
1 Create Simple web page using HTML5  
2 Design and Implement web page using CSS3 and HTML5  
3 Form Design and Client-Side Validation using: a. Javascript and HTML5, b. Javascript 
and Jquery 
4 Develop interactive web pages using HTML 5 with JDBC database connectivity  
5 Develop simple web page using PHP  
6 Develop interactive web pages using PHP with database connectivity MYSQL  
7 Develop XML web page using DTD, XSL  
8 Implement a web page using Ajax and PHP   
9 Case study based on Reactive js 
10 Installation of the React DOM library.  
* Suggestion: Laboratory work based on above syllabus can be incorporated as mini 
project in CSM501: Mini-Project. 
 
  
 
Course Code: Course Title Credit 
CSDLO5013 Advance Database Management System 3 
 
Prerequisite: Database Management System 
Course Objectives: 
1 To provide insights into distributed database designing    
2 To specify the various approaches used for using XML and JSON technologies.  
3 To apply the concepts behind the various types of  NoSQL databases and utilize it for Mongodb 
4 To learn about the trends in advance databases  
Course Outcomes: After the successful completion of this course learner will be able to: 
1 Design distributed database using the various techniques for query processing  
2 Measure query cost and perform distributed transaction management  
3 Organize the data using XML and  JSON database for better interoperability 
4 Compare different types of NoSQL databases 
5 Formulate NoSQL queries using Mongodb 
6 Describe various trends in advance databases through temporal, graph based and spatial 
based databases 
 
Module   Content Hrs 
1  Distributed Databases 3 
 1.1 Introduction, Distributed DBMS Architecture, Data Fragmentation, 
Replication and Allocation Techniques for Distributed Database Design. 
    
2  Distributed Database Handling 8 
 2.1 Distributed Transaction Management – Definition, properties, types, 
architecture  
Distributed Query Processing - Characterization of Query Processors, 
Layers/ phases of query processing. 
2.2 Distributed Concurrency Contr ol- Taxonomy, Locking based, Basic TO 
algorithm,   
Recovery in Distributed Databases: Failures in distributed database, 2PC 
and 3PC protocol.  
    
3  Data interoperability – XML and JSON 6 
 3.1  XML Databases: Document Type Definition, XML Schema, Querying and 
Transformation: XPath and XQuery. 
3.2 Basic JSON syntax, (Java Script Object Notation),JSON data types, 
Stringifying and parsing the JSON for sending & receiving, JSON Object 
retrieval using key-value pair and JQuery, XML Vs JSON 
    
4  NoSQL Distribution Model 10 
 4.1 NoSQL database concepts: NoSQL data modeling, Benefits of NoSQL, 
comparison between SQL and NoSQL database system. 
 
 4.2 Replication and sharding, Distribution Models Consistency in distributed 
data,  CAP theorem, Notion of A CID Vs BASE, handling Transactions, 
consistency and eventual consistency 
 4.3 Types of NoSQL databases: Key-value data store, Document database and 
Column Family Data store, Comparison  of NoSQL databases w.r.t CAP 
theorem and ACID properties. 
 
    
5  NoSQL using MongoDB 6 
 
 5.1 NoSQL using MongoDB: Introduction to MongoDB Shell, Running the 
MongoDB shell, MongoDB client, Basic operations with MongoDB shell, 
Basic Data Types, Arrays, Embedded Documents 
 5.2 Querying MongoDB using find() functions, advanced queries using logical 
operators and sorting, simple aggregate functions, saving and updating 
document.  
MongoDB Distributed environment: Concepts of replication and horizonal 
scaling through sharding in MongoDB 
   
6  Trends in advance databases   6 
 6.1 Temporal database:  Concepts, time representation, time dimension, 
incorporating time in relational databases. 
6.2 Graph Database:  Introduction, Features, Transactions, consistency, 
Availability, Querying, Case Study Neo4J 
6.3 Spatial database: Introduction, data types, models, operators and queries  
   39 
 
Textbooks: 
1 Korth, Siberchatz,Sudarshan, “Database System Concepts”, 6thEdition, McGraw Hill  
2 Elmasri and Navathe, “Fundamentals of Database Systems”, 5thEdition, Pearson Education  
3 Ozsu, M. Tamer, Valduriez, Patrick, “Principles of distributed database systems”,3rd Edition, 
Pearson Education, Inc. 
4 PramodSadalge, Martin Fowler,  NoSQL Distilled: A Brief Guide to the Emerging World of 
Polyglot Persistence, Addison Wesely/ Pearson 
5 Jeff Friesen , Java XML and JSON,Second Edition, 2019, après Inc. 
References: 
1 Peter Rob and Carlos Coronel,Database Systems Design, Implementation and Management, 
Thomson Learning, 5thEdition.  
2 Dr. P.S. Deshpande, SQL and PL/SQL for Oracle 10g, Black Book, Dreamtech Press. 
3 Adam Fowler, NoSQL for dummies, John Wiley & Sons, Inc. 
4 Shashank Tiwari, Professional NOSQL, John Willy & Sons. Inc 
5 Raghu Ramkrishnan and Johannes Gehrke, Database Management Systems, TMH 
6 MongoDB Manual : https://docs.mongodb.com/manual 
 
Assessment: 
Internal Assessment: 
Assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The first -class test is to be conducted 
when approx. 40% syllabus is completed a nd second class test when additional 40% syllabus is 
completed. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 Question paper will comprise of total six questions. 
2 All question carries equal marks 
3 Questions will be mixe d in nature (for example supposed Q.2 has part (a) from module 3 
then part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4 Only Four question need to be solved. 
5 In question paper weightage of each module will be proportional to number of respective 
lecture hours as mention in the syllabus. 
NOTE: Suggested that in Mini Projects (CSM501) can be included NoSQL databases for 
implementation as a backend. 
 
 
 
 
Useful Links  
1 https://cassandra.apache.org 
2 https://www.mongodb.com 
3 https://riak.com 
4 https://neo4j.com 
5 https://martinfowler.com/articles/nosql-intro-original.pdf 
 
  
 
Lab Code Lab Name Credit 
CSL501 Software Engineering Lab 1 
 
Prerequisite: Object Oriented Programming with Java , Python Programming 
Lab Objectives:  
1 To solve real life problems by applying software engineering  principles 
2 To impart state-of-the-art knowledge on Software Engineering 
Lab Outcomes: On successful completion of laboratory experiments, learners will be able to : 
1 Identify requirements and apply software process model to selected case study. 
2 Develop architectural models for the selected case study. 
3 Use computer-aided software engineering (CASE) tools. 
 
Suggested List of Experiments - Assign the case study/project as detail statement of problem 
to a group  of two/three students . Laboratory work will  be based on course syllabus with 
minimum 10 experiments. Open source computer-aided software engineering (CASE) tools can 
be used for performing the experiment. 
Sr. No.     Title of Experiment  
1 Application of at least two traditional process models. 
2 Application of the Agile process models. 
3 Preparation of software requirement specification (SRS) document in IEEE format. 
4 Structured data flow analysis. 
5 Use of metrics to estimate the cost. 
6 Scheduling & tracking of the project. 
7 Write test cases for black box testing. 
8 Write test cases for white box testing. 
9 Preparation of Risk Mitigation, Monitoring and Management Plan (RMMM). 
10 Version controlling of the project. 
 
 
Term Work: 
1 Term work should consist of 10 experiments. 
2 Journal must include at least 2 assignments on content of theory and practical of “Software 
Engineering” 
3 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures that satisfactory performance of 
laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. 
4 Total 25 Marks (Experiments: 15 -marks, Attendance Theory & Practical: 05 -marks, 
Assignments: 05-marks) 
Oral & Practical exam 
 Based on the entire syllabus of CSC502 and CSL501 syllabus 
 
 
  
 
Lab Code Lab Name Credit 
CSL502 Computer Network Lab 1 
 
Prerequisite: None 
Lab Objectives:  
1 To practically explore OSI layers and understand the usage of simulation tools. 
2 To analyze, specify and design the topological and routing strategies for an IP based 
networking infrastructure. 
3 To identify the various issues of a packet transfer from source to destination, and how they 
are resolved by the various existing protocols 
Lab Outcomes: On successful completion of lab, learner will be able to 
1 Design and setup networking environment in Linux. 
2 Use Network t ools and simulators such as NS2, Wireshark etc. to explore networking 
algorithms and protocols. 
3 Implement programs using core programming APIs for understanding networking concepts. 
 
Suggested List of Experiments 
Sr. No.     Title of Experiment  
1. Study of RJ45 and CAT6 Cabling and connection using crimping tool. 
2. Use basic networking commands in Linux (ping, tracert, nslookup, netstat, ARP, 
RARP, ip, ifconfig, dig, route ) 
3. Build a simple network topology and configure it for static routing protocol using 
packet tracer. Setup a network and configure IP addressing, subnetting, masking. 
4. Perform network discovery using discovery tools (eg. Nmap, mrtg) 
5. Use Wire shark to understand the operation of TCP/IP layers: 
● Ethernet Layer: Frame header, Frame size etc. 
● Data Link Layer: MAC address, ARP (IP and MAC address binding) 
● Network Layer: IP Packet (header, fragmentation), ICMP (Query and Echo) 
● Transport Layer: TCP Ports, TCP handshake segments etc. 
● Application Layer: DHCP, FTP, HTTP header formats 
6. Use simulator (Eg. NS2) to understand functioning of ALOHA, CSMA/CD. 
7. Study and Installation of Network Simulator (NS3) 
8. a. Set up multiple IP addresses on a single LAN. 
      b. Using nestat and route commands of Linux, do the following: 
● View current routing table 
● Add and delete routes 
● Change default gateway 
      c. Perform packet filtering by enabling IP forwarding using IPtables in Linux. 
9 Design VPN and Configure RIP/OSPF using Packet tracer. 
10. Socket programming using TCP or UDP 
11. Perform File Transfer and Access using FTP 
12.  Perform Remote login using Telnet server 
 
Term Work: 
1 Term work should consist of 10 experiments. 
2 Journal must include at least 2 assignments on content of theory and practical of “Computer 
Network” 
3 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures that satisfactory performance of 
laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. 
4 Total 25 Marks (Experiments: 15 -marks, Attendance Theory& Practical: 05 -marks, 
 
Assignments: 05-marks) 
Oral & Practical exam 
 Based on the entire syllabus of CSC503: Computer Network 
 
Useful Links  
1 https://www.netacad.com/courses/packet-tracer/introduction-packet-tracer 
2 https://www.coursera.org/projects/data-forwarding-computer-networks 
3 https://www.edx.org/course/ilabx-the-internet-masterclass 
 
 
  
 
Lab Code Lab Name Credit 
CSL503 Data Warehousing and Mining Lab 1 
 
Prerequisite: Database Concepts 
Lab Objectives: 
1.  Learn how to build a data warehouse and query it. 
2.  Learn about the data sets and data preprocessing. 
3.  Demonstrate the working of algorithms for data mining tasks such Classification, 
clustering, Association rule mining & Web mining 
4.  Apply the data mining techniques with varied input values for different parameters. 
5.  Explore open source software (like WEKA) to perform data mining tasks. 
Lab Outcomes: At the end of the course, the student will be able to 
1.  Design data warehouse and perform various OLAP operations.  
2.  Implement data mining algorithms like classification. 
3.  Implement clustering algorithms on a given set of data sample. 
4.  Implement Association rule mining & web mining algorithm. 
 
Suggested List of Experiments 
Sr. 
No.     
Title of Experiment  
1 One case study on building Data warehouse/Data Mart 
 Write Detailed Problem statement and design dimensional modelling (creation of star 
and snowflake schema)  
2 Implementation of all dimension table and fact table based on experiment 1 case study 
3 Implementation of OLAP operations: Slice, Dice, Rollup, Drilldown and Pivot based on 
experiment 1 case study 
4 Implementation of Bayesian algorithm 
5 Implementation of Data Discretization (any one) & Visualization (any one) 
6 Perform data Pre-processing task and demonstrate Classification, Clustering, Association 
algorithm on data sets using data mining tool (WEKA/R tool) 
7 Implementation of Clustering algorithm (K-means/K-medoids) 
8 Implementation of any one Hierarchical Clustering method 
9 Implementation of Association Rule Mining algorithm (Apriori) 
10 Implementation of Page rank/HITS algorithm 
 
Term Work: 
1 Term work should consist of 10 experiments. 
2 Journal must inclu de at least 1 assignment on content of theory and practical of “ Data 
Warehousing and Mining” 
3 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures that satisfactory performance 
of laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. 
4 Total 25  Marks (Experiments: 15 -marks, Attendance  (Theory & Practical): 05 -marks, 
Assignments: 05-marks) 
Oral & Practical exam 
 Based on the entire syllabus of CSC504 : Data Warehousing and Mining 
 
 
 
 Course Code Course Name Credit 
CSL504 Business Communication & Ethics II 02 
 
Course Rationale: This curriculum is designed to build up a professional and ethical approach, 
effective oral and written communication with enhanced soft skills. Through practical sessions, it 
augments student's interactive competence and confidence to respond appropriately and creatively to 
the implied challenges of the global Industrial and Corporate requirements. It further inculcates the 
social responsibility of engineers as technical citizens. 
Course Objectives 
1 To discern and develop an effective style of writing important technical/business documents. 
2 To investigate possible resources and plan a successful job campaign. 
3 To understand the dynamics of professional communication  in the form of group discussions, 
meetings, etc. required for career enhancement. 
4 To develop creative and impactful presentation skills. 
5 To analyze personal traits, interests, values, aptitudes and skills. 
6 To understand the importance of integrity and develop a personal code of ethics. 
Course Outcomes: At the end of the course, the student will be able to 
1 Plan  and  prepare  effective  business/ technical  documents  which  will  in  turn  provide  solid  
foundation  for  their  future  managerial  roles. 
2 Strategize their  personal  and  professional  skills  to  build  a  professional  image  and  meet  
the  demands  of  the  industry. 
3 Emerge  successful  in  group discussions, meetings and  result-oriented  agreeable  solutions  in  
group  communication situations. 
4 Deliver persuasive and professional  presentations. 
5 Develop creative thinking and interpersonal skills required for effective professional 
communication. 
6 Apply codes  of  ethical conduct, personal  integrity and norms  of  organizational behaviour. 
 
Module Contents Hours 
1 ADVANCED TECHNICAL WRITING: PROJECT/PROBLEM 
BASED LEARNING (PBL) 06 
 
Purpose and Classification of Reports: 
Classification on the basis of: Subject Matter (Technology, Accounting, 
Finance, Marketing, etc.), Time Interval (Periodic, One-time, Special), 
Function (Informational, Analytical, etc.), Physical Factors (Memorandum, 
Letter, Short & Long)   
Parts of a Long Formal Report: Prefatory Parts (Front Matter), Report 
Proper (Main Body), Appended Parts (Back Matter) 
 Language and Style of Reports: Tense, Person & Voice of Reports, 
Numbering Style of Chapters, Sections, Figures, Tables and Equations, 
Referencing Styles in APA & MLA Format, Proofreading through Plagiarism 
Checkers 
Definition, Purpose & Types of Proposals: Solicited (in conformance with 
RFP) & Unsolicited Proposals, Types (Short and Long proposals) 
Parts of a Proposal: Elements, Scope and Limitations, Conclusion 
Technical Paper Writing: Parts of a Technical Paper (Abstract, Introduction, 
Research Methods, Findings and Analysis, Discussion, Limitations, Future 
Scope and References), Language and Formatting, Referencing in IEEE 
Format 
 
 
2 EMPLOYMENT SKILLS 06 
 
Cover Letter & Resume: Parts and Content of a Cover Letter, Difference 
between Bio-data, Resume & CV, Essential Parts of a Resume, Types of 
Resume (Chronological, Functional & Combination) 
Statement of Purpose: Importance of SOP, Tips for Writing an Effective SOP 
Verbal Aptitude Test: Modelled on CAT, GRE, GMAT exams 
Group Discussions: Purpose of a GD , Parameters of Evaluating a GD , 
Types of GDs (Normal, Case-based & Role Plays), GD Etiquettes 
Personal Interviews : Planning and Preparation , Types of Questions , 
Types of Interviews (Structured, Stress, Behavioural, Problem Solving & 
Case-based), Modes of  Interviews: Face-to-face (One-to one and Panel) 
Telephonic, Virtual 
 
3 BUSINESS MEETINGS 02 
 
Conducting Business Meetings : Types of Meetings , Roles and 
Responsibilities of Chairperson, Secretary and Members , Meeting 
Etiquette 
Documentation: Notice, Agenda, Minutes 
 
4 TECHNICAL/ BUSINESS PRESENTATIONS 02 
 
Effective Presentation Strategies: Defining Purpose, Analyzing 
Audience, Location and Event, Gathering, Selecting &Arranging 
Material, structuring a Presentation, Making Effective Slides, Types of 
Presentations Aids, Closing a Presentation, Platform skills 
Group Presentations: Sharing Responsibility in a Team, Building the 
contents and visuals together, Transition Phases 
 
5 INTERPERSONAL SKILLS 08 
 
Interpersonal Skills: Emotional Intelligence, Leadership & Motivation, 
Conflict Management & Negotiation, Time Management, Assertiveness, 
Decision Making 
Start-up Skills: Financial Literacy, Risk Assessment, Data Analysis 
(e.g. Consumer Behaviour, Market Trends, etc.) 
 
6 CORPORATE ETHICS 02 
 
Intellectual Property Rights: Copyrights, Trademarks, Patents, 
Industrial Designs, Geographical Indications, Integrated Circuits, Trade 
Secrets (Undisclosed Information) 
Case Studies: Cases related to Business/ Corporate Ethics 
 
 
 
List of assignments: (In the form of Short Notes, Questionnaire/ MCQ Test, Role Play, 
Case Study, Quiz, etc.) 
Sr. 
No.     
Title of Experiment  
1 Cover Letter and Resume 
2 Short Proposal 
3 Meeting Documentation 
4 Writing a Technical Paper/ Analyzing a Published Technical Paper 
5 Writing a SOP 
6 IPR 
7 Interpersonal Skills 
Note: 
1 The Main Body of the project/book report should contain minimum 25 pages (excluding Front 
and Back matter). 
 
2 The group size for the final report presentation should not be less than 5 students or exceed 7 
students. 
3 There will be an end–semester presentation based on the book report. 
Assessment: 
Term Work: 
1 Term work shall consist of minimum 8 experiments. 
2 The distribution of marks for term work shall be as follows:  
Assignment                      : 10 Marks  
Attendance    : 5 Marks  
Presentation slides                       : 5 Marks 
Book Report (hard copy)            : 5 Marks 
3 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures the satisfactory performance of 
laboratory work and minimum passing in the term work. 
Internal oral: Oral Examination will be based on a GD & the Project/Book Report presentation. 
 Group Discussion     : 10 marks 
Project Presentation  : 10 Marks 
Group Dynamics       : 5 Marks 
Books Recommended: Textbooks and Reference books 
1 Arms, V. M. (2005). Humanities for the engineering curriculum: With selected 
chapters from Olsen/Huckin: Technical writing and professional communication, 
second edition. Boston, MA: McGraw-Hill. 
2 Bovée, C. L., &Thill, J. V. (2021). Business communication today. Upper Saddle 
River, NJ: Pearson. 
3 Butterfield, J. (2017). Verbal communication: Soft skills for a digital workplace. 
Boston, MA: Cengage Learning. 
4 Masters, L. A., Wallace, H. R., & Harwood, L. (2011). Personal development for life 
and work. Mason: South-Western Cengage Learning. 
5 Robbins, S. P., Judge, T. A., & Campbell, T. T. (2017). Organizational behaviour. 
Harlow, England: Pearson. 
6 Meenakshi Raman, Sangeeta Sharma (2004) Technical Communication, Principles and 
Practice. Oxford University Press 
7 Archana Ram (2018) Place Mentor, Tests of Aptitude for Placement Readiness. 
Oxford University Press 
8 Sanjay Kumar &PushpLata (2018). Communication Skills a workbook, New Delhi: 
Oxford University Press. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      Course Code Course Name Credits 
CSM501 Mini Project 2A 02 
 
Objectives 
1 To understand and identify the problem 
2 To apply basic engineering fundamentals and attempt to find solutions to the problems. 
3 Identify, analyze, formulate and handle programming projects with a comprehensive and 
systematic  approach 
4 To develop communication skills and improve teamwork amongst group members and 
inculcate the process of self-learning and research.   
Outcome: Learner will be able to… 
1 Identify societal/research/innovation/entrepreneurship problems through appropriate 
literature surveys 
2 Identify Methodology for solving above problem and apply engineering knowledge and 
skills to solve it  
3 Validate, Verify the results using test cases/benchmark data/theoretical/ 
inferences/experiments/simulations 
4 Analyze and evaluate the impact of solution/product/research/innovation 
/entrepreneurship  towards societal/environmental/sustainable development 
5 Use standard norms of engineering practices and project management principles during 
project work 
6 Communicate through technical report writing and oral presentation.  
● The work may result in research/white paper/ article/blog writing and publication 
● The work may result in business plan for entrepreneurship product created 
● The work may result in patent filing. 
7 Gain technical competency towards participation in Competitions, Hackathons, etc. 
8 Demonstrate capabilities of self-learning, leading to lifelong learning. 
9 Develop interpersonal skills to work as a member of a group or as leader 
Guidelines for Mini Project 
1 Mini project may be carried out in one or more form of following:  
Product preparations, prototype development model, fabrication of set -ups, laboratory 
experiment  development, process modification/development, simulation, software 
development, integration of  software (frontend-backend) and hardware, statistical data 
analysis, creating awareness in society/environment  etc.  
2 Students shall form a group of 3 to 4 students, while forming a group shall not be 
allowed less than three or more than four students, as it is a group activity. 
3 Students should do survey and identify needs, which shall be converted into problem 
statement for mini project in consultation with faculty supervisor or 
head of department/internal committee of faculties. 
4 Students shall submit an implementation plan in the form of Gantt/PERT/CPM chart, 
which will cover weekly activity of mini projects. 
5 A logbook may be prepared by each group, wherein the group can record weekly work 
progress, guide/supervisor can verify and record notes/comments. 
6 Faculty supervisors may give inputs to students during mini project activity; however, 
focus shall be on self-learning. 
7 Students under the guidance of faculty supervisor shall convert the best solution into a 
working model using various components of their domain areas and demonstrate. 
8 The solution to be validated with proper justification and report to be compiled in 
standard format of University of Mumbai. Software requirement specification (SRS) 
documents, research papers, competition certificates may be submitted as part of 
 
annexure to the report. 
9 With the focus on self -learning, innovation, addressing societal/research/innovation 
problems and entrepreneurship quality development within the students through the Mini 
Projects, it is preferable that a single project of appropriate level and quality be carried 
out in two semesters by all the groups of the students. i.e. Mini Project 2 in semesters V 
and VI. 
10 However, based on the individual students or group c apability, with the mentor’s 
recommendations, if   the   proposed   Mini Project adhering to the qualitative aspects 
mentioned above, gets completed in odd semester, then that group can be allowed to work 
on the extension of the Mini Project with suitable improvements/modifications or a 
completely new project idea in even semester. This policy can be adopted on a case by 
case basis. 
 
Term Work 
The review/ progress monitoring committee shall be constituted by the heads of departments of 
each institute. The progress of the mini project to be evaluated on a continuous basis, based on 
the SRS document submitted. minimum two reviews in each semester. 
In continuous assessment focus shall also be on each individual student, assessment based on 
individual’s contribution in group activity, their understanding and response to questions. 
Distribution of Term work marks for both semesters shall be as below: Marks 25 
1 Marks awarded by guide/supervisor based on logbook 10 
2 Marks awarded by review committee 10 
3 Quality of Project report 05 
 Review / progress monitoring committee may consider following points for assessment 
based on either one year or half year project as mentioned in general guidelines 
One-year project: 
1 In one-year project (sem V and VI) , first semester the entire theoretical solution shall be 
made ready, including components/system selection and cost analysis. Two reviews will 
be conducted based on a presentation given by a student group. 
 First shall be for finalization of problem 
 Second shall be on finalization of proposed solution of problem. 
2 In the second semester expected work shall be procurement of component’s/systems, 
building of working prototype, testing and validation of results based on work completed 
in an earlier semester. 
 First review is based on readiness of building working prototype to be conducted. 
 Second review shall be based on poster presentation cum demonstration of working 
model in the last month of the said semester. 
Half-year project: 
1 In this case in one semester students’ group shall complete project in all aspects including, 
 Identification of need/problem 
 Proposed final solution 
 Procurement of components/systems 
 Building prototype and testing 
2 Two reviews will be conducted for continuous assessment, 
 First shall be for finalization of problem and proposed solution 
 Second shall be for implementation and testing of solution. 
 
 
Mini Project shall be assessed based on following points 
1 Clarity of problem and quality of literature Survey for problem identification 
2 Requirement Gathering via SRS/ Feasibility Study 
3  Completeness of methodology implemented 
4  Design, Analysis and Further Plan  
5  Novelty, Originality or Innovativeness of project 
6 Societal / Research impact 
7  Effective use of skill set : Standard engineering practices and Project management 
standard 
8  Contribution of an individual’s as member or leader 
9 Clarity in written and oral communication 
10  Verification and  validation of the solution/ Test Cases 
11   Full functioning of working model as per stated requirements 
12 Technical writing /competition/hackathon outcome being met 
 
In one year project (sem V and VI), first semester evaluation may be based on first 10 criteria and 
remaining may be used for second semester evaluation of performance of students in mini 
projects. 
In case of half year projects (completing in V sem) all criteria in generic may be considered for 
evaluation of performance of students in mini projects. 
 
Guidelines for Assessment of Mini Project Practical/Oral Examination: 
1  Report should be prepared as per the guidelines issued by the University of Mumbai. 
2  Mini Project shall be assessed through a presentation and demonstration of working model 
by the student project group to a panel of In ternal and External Examiners preferably from 
industry or research organizations having experience of more than five years approved by 
the head of Institution. 
3  Students shall be motivated to publish a paper/participate in competition based on the work 
in Conferences/students competitions. 
 
  
Copy for information and necessary action :-  
 
1. The Deputy Registrar, College Affiliations & Development Department 
 (CAD),  
        2.  College Teachers Approval Unit (CTA),  
3.  The Deputy Registrar, (Admissions, Enrolment, Eligibility and 
     Migration Department (AEM), 
4. The Deputy Registrar, Academic Appointments & Quality Assurance 
 (AAQA) 
5.  The Deputy Registrar, Research Administration & Promotion Cell 
  (RAPC), 
     6.  The Deputy Registrar, Executive Authorities Section (EA) 
            He is requested to treat this as action taken report on the concerned 
resolution adopted by the Academic Council referred to the above 
circular. 
 
         
       7.  The Deputy Registrar, PRO, Fort, (Publication Section), 
       8.  The Deputy Registrar, Special Cell,  
       9.  The Deputy Registrar, Fort Administration Department     
             (FAD) Record Section, 
     10.  The Deputy Registrar, Vidyanagari  Administration Department     
             (VAD),         
 
 
Copy for information :- 
 
 
1. The Director, Dept. of Information and Communication Technology     
 (DICT), Vidyanagari,  
He is requested to upload the Circular University Website 
2.  The Director of Department of Student Development (DSD), 
       3.  The Director, Institute of Distance and Open Learning (IDOL Admin),   
            Vidyanagari, 
4.  All Deputy Registrar, Examination House, 
5.  The Deputy Registrars, Finance & Accounts Section,  
6.  The Assistant Registrar, Administrative sub-Campus Thane, 
7.  The Assistant Registrar, School of Engg. &  Applied Sciences,  Kalyan, 
8.  The Assistant Registrar, Ratnagiri sub-centre, Ratnagiri, 
9.  P.A to Hon’ble Vice-Chancellor, 
  10.  P.A to Pro-Vice-Chancellor, 
  11.  P.A to Registrar, 
  12.  P.A to All Deans of all  Faculties, 
  13.  P.A to Finance & Account Officers, (F & A.O), 
  14.  P.A to Director, Board of Examinations and Evaluation, 
  15.  P.A to Director, Innovation, Incubation and Linkages, 
  16.  P.A to Director, Department of Lifelong Learning and Extension (DLLE),  
  17.  The Receptionist, 
  18.  The Telephone Operator, 
 
  Copy with compliments for information to :- 
 
19. The Secretary, MUASA 
20. The Secretary, BUCTU. 
 
 
        
 
 
  AC – 11 July, 2022 
                                                                                                   Item No. – 6.41 (R) 
 
 
 
 
University of Mumbai 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
Revised Syllabus for  
B.E. (Computer Engineering)  
Semester – (VII & VIII) 
(Choice Based Credit System) 
 
 
(With effect from the academic year 2022-23) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

Preamble 
 
To meet the challenge of ensuring excellence in engineering education, the issue of quality needs to 
be addressed, debated and taken forward in a systematic manner. Accreditation is the principal 
means of quality assurance in higher education. The major emphasis of accreditation process is to 
measure the outcomes of the program that is  being accredited. In line with this Faculty of Science 
and Technology (in particular Engineering) of University of Mumbai has taken a lead in 
incorporating philosophy of outcome based education in the process of curriculum development. 
Faculty resolved th at course objectives and course outcomes are to be clearly defined for each 
course, so that all faculty members in affiliated institutes understand the depth and approach of 
course to be taught, which will enhance learner’s learning process. Choice based C redit and grading 
system enables a much-required shift in focus from teacher-centric to learner-centric education since 
the workload estimated is based on the investment of time in learning and not in teaching. It also 
focuses on continuous evaluation which will enhance the quality of education. Credit assignment for 
courses is based on 15 weeks teaching learning process, however content of courses is to be taught in 
13 weeks and remaining 2 weeks to be utilized for revision, guest lectures, coverage of con tent 
beyond syllabus etc. 
There was a concern that the earlier revised curriculum more focused on providing information and 
knowledge across various domains of the said program, which led to heavily loading of students in 
terms of direct contact hours. In this regard, faculty of science and technology resolved that to 
minimize the burden of contact hours, total credits of entire program will be of 170, wherein focus is 
not only on providing knowledge but also on building skills, attitude and self learning. Therefore in 
the present curriculum skill based laboratories and mini projects are made mandatory across all 
disciplines of engineering in second and third year of programs, which will definitely facilitate self 
learning of students. The overall credits and approach of curriculum proposed in the present revision 
is in line with AICTE model curriculum. 
The present curriculum will be implemented for Second Year of Engineering from the academic year 
2021-22. Subsequently this will be carried forward for Third Year and Final Year Engineering in the 
academic years 2022-23, 2023-24, respectively. 
 
 
 
 
Dr. S.K. Ukarande Dr Anuradha Muzumdar 
Associate Dean Dean 
Faculty of Science and Technology Faculty of Science and Technology 
University of Mumbai University of Mumbai
Incorporation and Implementation of Online Contents 
fromNPTEL/ Swayam Platform 
 
 
 
 The curriculum revision is mainly focused on knowledge component, skill based activities and 
project based activities. Self learning opportunities are p rovided to learners. In the revision 
process this time in par ticular Revised syllabus of ‘C’ scheme wherever possible additional 
resource links of platforms such as NPTEL, Swayam are appropriately provided. In an earlier 
revision of curriculum in the year 2012 and 2016 in Revised scheme ‘A' and ‘B' respectively, 
efforts were made to use online contents more appropriately as additional learning materials to 
enhance learning of students. 
In the current revision based on the recommendation of AICTE model curri culum overall credits 
are reduced to 171, to provide opportunity of self learning to learner. Learners are now getting 
sufficient time for self learning either through online courses or additional projects for enhancing 
their knowledge and skill sets. 
The Principals/ HoD’s/ Faculties of all the institute are required to motivate and encourage 
learners to use additional online resources available on platforms such as NPTEL/ Swayam. 
Learners can be advised to take up online courses, on successful completion t hey are required to 
submit certification for the same. This will definitely help learners to facilitate their enhanced 
learning based on their interest. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Dr. S.K.Ukarande Dr Anuradha Muzumdar 
 Associate Dean Dean 
 Faculty of Science and Technology Faculty of Science and Technology 
 University of Mumbai University of Mumbai 
 
Preface by Board of Studies in 
Computer Engineering 
Dear Students and Teachers, we, the members of Board of Studies Computer 
Engineering, are very happy to present T hird Year Computer Engineering syllabus 
effective from the Academic Year 2021 -22 (REV-2019’C’ Scheme). We are sure you 
will find this syllabus interesting, challenging, fulfill certain needs and expectations. 
Computer Engineering is one of the most sought-after courses amongst engineering 
students. The syllabus needs revision in terms of preparing the student for the 
professional scenario relevant and suitable to cater the needs of industry in present day 
context. The syllabus focuses on providing a sound theoretical background as well as 
good practical exposure to students in the relevant areas. It is intended to provide a 
modern, industry -oriented education in Computer Engineering. It aims at producing 
trained professionals who can successfully acquainted with the demands of the industry 
worldwide. They obtain skills and experience in up -to-date the knowledge to analysis, 
design, implementation, validation, and documentation of computer software and 
systems. 
The revised syllabus is finalized through a brain storming session attended by Heads of 
Departments or senior faculty from the Department of Computer Engineering of the 
affiliated Institutes of the Mumbai University. The syllabus falls in line with the 
objectives of affiliating University, AICTE, UGC, and various accreditation agencies 
by keeping an eye on the technological developments, innovations, and industry  
requirements. 
 
The salient features of the revised syllabus are: 
1. Reduction in credits to 170 is implemented to ensure that students have more 
time for extracurricular activities, innovations, and research. 
2. The department Optional Courses will provide the relevant specialization 
within the branch to a student. 
3. Introduction of Skill Based Lab and Mini Project to showcase their talent by 
doing innovative projects that strengthen their profile and increases the 
chance of employability. 
4. Students are encouraged to take up part of course through MOOCs platform 
SWAYAM 
We would like to place on record our gratefulness to the faculty, students, indust ry 
experts and stakeholders for having helped us in the formulation of this syllabus. 
Board of Studies in Computer Engineering 
Prof. Sunil Bhirud : Chairman  
Prof. SunitaPatil : Member 
Prof. Leena Ragha : Member 
Prof. Subhash  Shinde : Member 
Prof .Meera Narvekar : Member 
Prof. Suprtim Biswas : Member  
Prof. Sudhir Sawarkar : Member  
Prof. Dayanand Ingle : Member 
Prof. Satish Ket : Member 
 
 
Program Structure for Fourth Year Computer Engineering  
UNIVERSITY OF MUMBAI (With Effect from 2022-2023) 
Semester VII 
Course 
Code Course Name 
Teaching Scheme 
(Contact Hours) Credits Assigned 
Theory Pract. 
Tut. Theory Pract. Total 
CSC701 Machine Learning 3 -- 3 -- 3 
CSC702 Big Data Analytics  3 -- 3  3 
CSDC 
701X 
Department  Level 
Optional Course-3 3 -- 3 -- 3 
CSDC 
702X 
Department  Level 
Optional Course-4 3 -- 3 -- 3 
ILO 
701X 
Institute Level Optional 
Course-1 3 -- 3 -- 3 
CSL701 Machine Learning Lab  -- 2 -- 1 1 
CSL702 Big Data Analytics Lab -- 2 -- 1 1 
CSDL 
701X 
Department  Level 
Optional Course-3 Lab -- 2 -- 1 1 
CSDL 
702X  
Department  Level 
Optional Course-4 Lab  -- 2 -- 1 1 
CSP701 Major Project 1 -- 6# -- 3 3 
Total 15 14 15 7 22 
Course 
Code Course Name 
Examination Scheme 
Theory Term 
Work 
Pract. 
& oral Total 
Internal 
Assessment  
End 
Sem 
Exam 
Exam. 
Duration 
(in Hrs)  
   
Test
1 
Test
2 Avg      
CSC701 Machine Learning 20 20 20 80 3 -- -- 100 
CSC702 Big Data Analysis 20 20 20 80 3 -- -- 100 
CSDC 
701X 
Department  Level 
Optional Course-3 20 20 20 80 3 -- -- 100 
CSDC 
702X 
Department  Level 
Optional Course-4 20 20 20 80 3 -- -- 100 
ILO 
701X 
Institute Level Optional 
Course-1 20 20 20 80 3 -- -- 100 
CSL701 Machine Learning Lab  -- -- -- -- -- 25 25 50 
CSL702 Big Data Analytics Lab -- -- -- -- -- 25 25 50 
CSDL 
701X 
Department  Level 
Optional Course-3 Lab      25 - 25 
CSDL 
702X  
Department  Level 
Optional Course-4 Lab  -- -- -- -- -- 25 - 25 
CSP701 Major Project 1 -- -- -- -- -- 50 25 75 
Total -- -- 100 400 -- 150 75 725 
 
 
 
 
Program Structure for Fourth Year Computer Engineering  
UNIVERSITY OF MUMBAI (With Effect from 2022-2023) 
Semester VIII 
Course 
Code Course Name 
Teaching Scheme 
(Contact Hours) Credits Assigned 
Theory Pract. 
Tut. Theory Pract. Total 
CSC801 Distributed Computing 3 -- 3 -- 3 
CSDC 
801X 
Department  Level Optional 
Course -5 3 -- 3 -- 3 
CSDC 
802X  
Department  Level Optional 
Course -6 3 -- 3 -- 3 
ILO 
801X 
Institute  Level Optional 
Course -2 3 -- 3 -- 3 
CSL801 Distributed Computing Lab -- 2 -- 1 1 
CSDL 
801X 
Department  Level Optional 
Course -5 Lab -- 2 -- 1 1 
CSDL 
802X  
Department  Level Optional 
Course -6 Lab -- 2 -- 1 1 
CSP801 Major Project 2 -- 12# -- 6 6 
Total 12 18 12 9 21 
Course 
Code Course Name 
Examination Scheme 
Theory Term 
Work 
Pract 
 & 
oral 
Total 
Internal Assessment  
End 
Sem 
Exam 
Exam 
Duration 
(in Hrs)  
   
Test
1 
Test
2 Avg      
CSC801 Distributed Computing 20 20 20 80 3 -- -- 100 
CSDC 
801X 
Department  Level Optional 
Course -5 20 20 20 80 3 -- -- 100 
CSDC 
802X  
Department  Level Optional 
Course -6 20 20 20 80 3 -- -- 100 
ILO 
801X  
Institute  Level Optional  
Course -2 20 20 20 80 3 -- -- 100 
CSL801 Distributed Computing Lab -- -- -- -- -- 25 25 50 
CSDL 
801X 
Department  Level Optional 
Course -5 Lab -- -- -- -- -- 25 25 50 
CSDL 
802X  
Department  Level Optional 
Course -6 Lab      25 25 50 
CSP801 Major Project- 2 -- -- -- -- -- 100 50 150 
Total -- -- 80 320 -- 175 125 700 
 
Major Project 1 and 2 : 
 Students can form groups with minimum 2 (Two) and not more than 4 (Four) 
 Faculty Load : In Semester VII – ½  hour per week per project group 
               In Semester VIII – 1 hour per week per project group 
 
 
 
 
Program Structure for Computer Engineering  
 
UNIVERSITY OF MUMBAI (With Effect from 2022-2023) 
Department and Institute Optional Courses and Labs  
 
Semester 
Department/  
Institute Optional 
Courses and Labs 
Subject 
VII 
 
 
Department Optional 
Course -3 
 
CSDC7011: Machine Vision  
CSDC7012:  Quantum Computing   
CSDC7013: Natural Language Processing   
 
Department Optional 
Lab -3 
 
CSDL7011: Machine Vision Lab 
CSDL7012: Quantum Computing  Lab   
CSDL7013: Natural Language Processing  Lab 
 
Department Optional 
Course -4 
 
CSDC7021 : Augmented and Virtual Reality  
CSDC7022 : Block Chain  
CSDC7023 : Information Retrieval 
 
Department Optional 
Lab -4 
 
CSDL7021 : Augmented and Virtual Reality Lab 
CSDL7022 : Block Chain Lab 
CSDL7023 : Information Retrieval Lab 
Institute level 
Optional  
Courses-I 
 
 
 
 
ILO7011. Product Lifecycle Management 
ILO7012. Reliability Engineering 
ILO7013.  Management Information System 
ILO7014. Design of Experiments 
ILO7015. Operation Research 
ILO7016. Cyber Security and Laws 
ILO7017. Disaster Management & Mitigation Measures 
ILO7018. Energy Audit and Management 
ILO7019. Development Engineering 
 
 
 
 
 
Program Structure for Computer Engineering  
 
UNIVERSITY OF MUMBAI (With Effect from 2022-2023) 
Department and Institute Optional Courses and Labs  
Semester 
Department/  
Institute Optional 
Courses and Labs 
Subject 
VIII 
 
Department 
Optional Course -5 
CSDC8011 : Deep Learning  
CSDC8012 : Digital Forensic 
CSDC8013 : Applied Data Science 
Department 
Optional Lab -5 
CSDL8011 : Deep Learning Lab 
CSDL8012 : Digital Forensic Lab 
CSDL8013 : Applied Data Science Lab 
Department 
Optional Course -6 
CSDC8021 : Optimization in Machine Learning  
CSDC8022: High Performance Computing   
CSDC8023: Social Media Analytics  
Department 
Optional Lab -6 
CSDL8021 : Optimization in Machine Learning Lab 
CSDL8022: High Performance Computing  Lab 
CSDL8023: Social Media Analytics Lab 
 
Institute level 
Optional 
Courses-II 
 
 
 
ILO8021. Project Management 
ILO8022. Finance Management 
ILO8023. Entrepreneurship Development and Management 
ILO8024. Human Resource Management 
ILO8025. Professional Ethics and CSR 
ILO8026. Research Methodology 
ILO8027. IPR and Patenting 
ILO8028. Digital Business Management 
ILO8029. Environmental Management 
 
 
 
 
 
Course Code: Course Title Credit 
CSC701 Machine Learning 3 
 
Prerequisite: Engineering Mathematics, Data Structures, Algorithms 
Course Objectives: 
1 To introduce the basic concepts and techniques of Machine Learning.  
2 To acquire in depth understanding of various supervised and unsupervised algorithms 
3 To be able to apply various ensemble techniques for combining ML models. 
4 To demonstrate dimensionality reduction techniques. 
Course Outcomes: 
1 To acquire fundamental knowledge of developing machine learning models. 
2 To select, apply and evaluate an appropriate machine learning model for the given 
application. 
3 To demonstrate ensemble techniques to combine predictions from different models.  
4 To demonstrate the dimensionality reduction techniques. 
 
Module  Content Hrs 
1  Introduction to Machine Learning 04 
 1.1 
Machine Learning, Types of Machine Learning, Issues in Machine 
Learning, Application of Machine Learning, Steps in developing a 
Machine Learning Application.  
 
 1.2 Training Error, Generalization error, Overfitting, Underfitting, Bias-
Variance trade-off.   
2  Learning with Regression and Trees 09 
 2.1 Learning with Regression: Linear Regression, Multivariate Linear 
Regression, Logistic Regression.   
 2.2 Learning with Trees: Decision Trees, Constructing Decision Trees using 
Gini Index (Regression), Classification and Regression Trees (CART)   
 2.3 Performance Metrics: Confusion Matrix, [Kappa Statistics], Sensitivity, 
Specificity, Precision, Recall, F-measure, ROC curve  
3  Ensemble Learning 06 
 3.1 Understanding Ensembles,  K-fold cross validation, Boosting, Stumping, 
XGBoost  
 3.2 Bagging, Subagging, Random Forest, Comparison with Boosting, 
Different ways to combine classifiers  
4  Learning with Classification  08 
 4.1 
Support Vector Machine 
Constrained Optimization, Optimal decision boundary, Margins and 
support vectors, SVM as constrained optimization problem, Quadratic 
Programming, SVM for linear and nonlinear classification, Basics of 
 
 
Kernel trick. 
 4.2  Support Vector Regression, Multiclass Classification  
5   Learning with Clustering 07 
 5.1 Introduction to clustering with overview of distance metrics and major 
clustering approaches.  
 5.2 
Graph Based Clustering: Clustering with minimal spanning tree  
Model based Clustering: Expectation Maximization Algorithm,  
Density Based Clustering: DBSCAN 
 
6  Dimensionality Reduction 05 
 6.1 Dimensionality Reduction Techniques, Principal Component Analysis, 
Linear Discriminant Analysis, Singular Valued Decomposition.  
Total 39 
 
Textbooks: 
1 Peter Harrington, “Machine Learning n Action”, DreamTech Press 
2 Ethem Alpaydın, “Introduction to Machine Learning”, MIT Press 
3 Tom M. Mitchell, “Machine Learning” McGraw Hill 
4 Stephen Marsland, “Machine Learning An Algorithmic Perspective”,  CRC Press 
References: 
1 Han Kamber, ―Data Mining Concepts and Techniques‖, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers 
2 Margaret. H. Dunham, ―Data Mining Introductory and Advanced Topics, Pearson 
Education 
3 Kevin P. Murphy , Machine Learning ― A Probabilistic Perspective‖ 
4 Samir Roy and Chakraborty, ―Introduction to soft computing‖, Pearson Edition. 
5 Richard  Duda, Peter Hart, David G. Stork, “Pattern  Classification”, Second Edition, Wiley 
Publications. 
Assessment: 
Internal Assessment: 
Assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The first class test is to be conducted 
when approximately 40% syllabus is completed and the second class test when an additional 40% 
syllabus is completed. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 Question paper will comprise a total of six questions. 
2 All question carries equal marks 
3 Questions will be mixed in nature (for example supposed Q.2 has part (a) from module 3 
then part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4 Only Four questions need to be solved. 
 
5 In question paper weightage of each module will be proportional to number of respective 
lecture hours as mentioned in the syllabus. 
 
Useful Digital Links  
1 Data sets for Machine Learning algorithms: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets 
2 Machine Learning repository- https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/index.php 
3 Machine Learning from Coursera 
4 https://towardsdatascience.com/machine-learning/home 
5 https://onlinecourses.nptel.ac.in/noc21_cs85/preview 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course Code Course  Name Credit 
CSC702 Big Data Analysis 03 
 
Prerequisite: Database, Data mining. 
Course Objectives: The course aims: 
1  To provide an overview of the big data platforms, its use cases and Hadoop ecosystem. 
2  To introduce programming skills to build simple solutions using big data technologies such as   
 MapReduce, Scripting for No SQL and R 
3 
 To learn the fundamental techniques and principles in achieving big data analytics with    
 scalability and streaming capability. 
4  To enable students to have skills that will help them to solve complex real-world problems for 
 decision support. 
Course Outcomes: 
1  Understand the building blocks of Big Data Analytics. 
2  Apply fundamental enabling techniques like Hadoop and MapReduce in solving real world      
 problems. 
3  Understand different NoSQL systems and how it handles big data. 
4  Apply advanced techniques for emerging applications like stream analytics. 
5  Achieve adequate perspectives of big data analytics in various applications like   
 recommender systems, social media applications, etc. 
6  Apply statistical computing techniques and graphics for analyzing big data. 
 
Module  Detailed Content Hours 
1  Introduction to Big Data and Hadoop 2 
 1.1 Introduction to Big Data - Big Data characteristics and Types of Big Data  
 1.2 Traditional vs. Big Data business approach  
 1.3 Case Study of Big Data Solutions  
 1.4 Concept of Hadoop, Core Hadoop Components; Hadoop Ecosystem  
2  Hadoop HDFS and MapReduce 8 
 2.1 Distributed File Systems: Physical Organization of Compute Nodes, Large-
Scale File-System Organization.  
 2.2 MapReduce: The Map Tasks, Grouping by Key,  The Reduce Tasks, 
Combiners, Details of MapReduce Execution, Coping With Node Failures.  
 2.3 
Algorithms Using MapReduce: Matrix-Vector Multiplication by MapReduce, 
Relational-Algebra Operations, Computing Selections by MapReduce, 
Computing Projections by MapReduce, Union ,Intersection, 
 and Difference by MapReduce 
 
 
 2.4 Hadoop Limitations  
3  NoSQL 10 
 3.1 Introduction to NoSQL, NoSQL Business Drivers  
 3.2 
NoSQL Data Architecture Patterns: Key-value stores, Graph stores, Column 
family (Bigtable)stores, Document stores, Variations of NoSQL architectural 
patterns, NoSQL Case Study 
 
 3.3 
NoSQL solution for big data, Understanding the types of big data problems; 
Analyzing big data with a shared-nothing architecture; Choosing distribution 
models: master-slave versus peer-to-peer; NoSQL systems to handle big data 
problems. 
 
4  Mining Data Streams 11 
 4.1 The Stream Data Model: A Data-Stream-Management System, Examples of 
Stream Sources, Stream Queries, Issues in Stream Processing.  
 4.2 Sampling Data techniques in a Stream  
 4.3 Filtering Streams: Bloom Filter with Analysis.  
 4.4 
Counting Distinct Elements in a Stream,Count-
Distinct Problem, Flajolet-Martin Algorithm, Combining Estimates, 
Space Requirements 
 
 4.5 
Counting Ones in a Window: The Cost of Exact Counts,The 
Datar-Gionis-Indyk-Motwani Algorithm, Query Answering in theDGIM 
Algorithm, Decaying Windows. 
 
5  Real-Time Big Data Models 4 
 5.1 A Model for Recommendation Systems, Content-Based Recommendations, 
Collaborative Filtering  
 5.2 Case Study: Product Recommendation  
 5.3 Social Networks as Graphs, Clustering of Social-Network Graphs, Direct 
Discovery of Communities in a social graph  
6  Data Analytics with R 4 
 6.1 
Exploring Basic features of R, Exploring RGUI, Exploring RStudio, Handling 
Basic Expressions in R, Variables in R, Working with Vectors, Storing and 
Calculating Values in R, Creating and using Objects, Interacting with users, 
Handling data in R workspace, Executing Scripts, Creating Plots, 
Accessing help and documentation in R 
 
 6.2 Reading datasets and Exporting data from R, Manipulating and Processing 
Data in R, Using functions instead of script, built-in functions in R  
 6.3 Data Visualization: Types, Applications  
 
Textbooks: 
1 Cre Anand Rajaraman and Jeff Ullman ―Mining of Massive Datasets‖, Cambridge 
UniversityPress 
2 Alex Holmes ―Hadoop in Practice‖, Manning Press, Dreamtech Press. 
3 Dan Mcary and Ann Kelly ―Making Sense of NoSQL‖ – A guide for managers and the 
rest of us, Manning Press. 
4   DT Editorial Services, “Big Data Black Book”, Dreamtech Press 
5 EMC Education Services,”Data Science and Big Data Analytics”,Wiley 
 
 
References: 
1 Bill Franks , ―Taming The Big Data Tidal Wave: Finding Opportunities In HugeData 
StreamsWithAdvancedAnalytics‖,Wiley 
2 Chuck Lam, ―Hadoop inAction‖, Dreamtech Press 
3 Jared Dean, ―Big Data, Data Mining, and Machine Learning: Value Creation for 
Business Leaders and Practitioners‖,Wiley India Private Limited, 2014. 
4 Jiawei Han and Micheline Kamber, ―Data Mining: Concepts and Techniques‖, Morgan 
Kaufmann Publishers, 3rd ed, 2010. 
5 Lior Rokach and  Oded  Maimon, ―Data  Mining  and  Knowledge  Discovery  
Handbook‖, Springer, 2nd edition,2010. 
6 Ronen Feldman and James Sanger, ―The Text Mining Handbook: Advanced 
Approaches in Analyzing Unstructured Data‖, Cambridge University Press, 2006. 
7 Vojislav Kecman, ―Learning and Soft Computing‖, MITPress, 2010. 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment: 
Assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The first -class test is to be conducted 
when approx. 40% syllabus is completed and second class test when additional40% syllabus is 
completed. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 Question paper will consist of 6 questions, each carrying 20 marks. 
2 The students need to solve a total of 4 questions. 
3 Question No.1 will be compulsory and based on the entire syllabus. 
4 Remaining question (Q.2 to Q.6) will be selected from all the modules. 
 
Useful Links 
1 https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106104189 
2 https://www.coursera.org/specializations/big-data#courses 
3 https://www.digimat.in/nptel/courses/video/106106169/L01.html 
4 https://www.coursera.org/learn/nosql-databases#syllabus 
5 https://www.coursera.org/learn/basic-recommender-systems#syllabus 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course Code                 Course Name Credit 
CSDC7011    Machine Vision 03 
 
Pre-requisite: Computer Graphics 
 
Course Objectives: The course aims: 
1 To understand the need and significance Machine Vision 
2 To explore basics of image processing 
3 To explore the components of Machine Vision System  
4 To  develop application using machine Vision 
5 To study transformation, interpolation, filters. 
 
Course Outcomes: Learners will be able to 
1 Elaborate the components of Machine Vision Application 
2 Perform image ,video preprocessing  operations 
3 Explain various transformations, interpolation. 
4 Elaborate motion tracking in video. 
5 Analyze and Implement appropriate filtering techniques for a given problem. 
6 Develop applications based on machine vision.. 
 
 
Module  Detailed Content Hours 
1  Introduction to Machine Vision 4 
  
Computer and Human Vision Systems., The Human Eye, 
Computer versus Human Vision Systems, Evolution of 
Computer Vision, Computer/Machine Vision and Image 
Processing, Applications of Computer Vision 
 
2  Digital Image Fundamentals 8 
  
Digital Image, Monochrome and Color Images, Image Brightness 
and Contrast., 2D, 3D, and 4D Images, Digital Image 
Representation , Digital Image File Formats, Fundamental Image 
Operations, Points, Edges, and Vertices , Point Operations , 
Thresholding ,Brightness, Geometric Transformations , Spatial 
Transformation , Affine Transformation, Image Interpolation 
,Nearest-Neighbor Interpolation ,Bilinear Interpolation , Bi-cubic 
Interpolation ,Fundamental Steps in Digital Image Processing. 
 
3  Machine Vision and System Components 8 
  
Machine Vision System, Machine Vision Camera: CCD and 
CMOS Image Sensors, TDI Sensor, Camera Type - Area Scan 
Cameras, Line Scan Cameras, Smart Cameras, Camera Lens- 
Resolution, Contrast and Sharpness, Lenses and their parameters: 
Types of Lenses, Lens Mounts, Lens Selection Examples-Field of 
 
 
View Much larger than Camera sensor size or Smaller or close to 
Camera Sensor size, Machine Vision Lighting: Lighting: Light 
Sources in Machine Vision, Illumination Techniques-Backlighting, 
Front Lighting, Diffused Lighting, Oblique Lighting, Dark Field 
Lighting, Infrared and Ultraviolet Light, Filters, Machine Vision 
Software, Machine Vision Automation, Integration of Machine 
Vision Components 
4  Digital Image Processing for Machine Vision Applications 10 
  
Preprocessing., Image Filtering, Normalized Box Filter Gaussian 
Filter  Bilateral Filter, Comparison of Filter Techniques, Sub 
sampling/Scaling Histogram, Image Segmentation, Threshold-
Based Segmentation Edge-Based Segmentation First-Order 
Derivative Edge Detection. Second-Order Derivative Operators,  
Comparison of Edge Detection Techniques, Region-Based 
Segmentation Region Growing Methods, Region Split and Merge 
Method, Morphological Image Processing: Dilation, Erosion, 
Opening, Closing, Hit-or-Miss transformation, Object Recognition. 
Template Matching. Blob Analysis 
 
5  Motion Analysis 4 
  
Differential motion Analysis, Optical Flow, Analysis based on 
correspondence of interest points, Detection of specific motion 
Patterns, Video Tracking 
 
6  Emerging Trends  in Machine Vision 5 
 6.1 
History of Industrial Revolution(s), Machine Vision and 
Industry 4.0, Emerging Vision Trends in Manufacturing, 3D 
Imaging, Emerging Vision Trends in Manufacturing, 
 
 6.2 Applications in Machine/ Computer Vision: Face detection, 
face recognition, eigen faces, car on roads  
 
Textbooks: 
1. Sheila Anand and L.Priya , “A Guide for Machine Vision in Quality Control”, Taylor & 
Francis Inc, Imprint CRC Press Inc, Dec 2019 
2. Rafael C. Gonzalez and Richard E. Woods, “Digital Image Processing”,  Pearson 
3. Carsten  Stegar,  Markus Ulrich, and Christian Wiedemann , “Machine Vision 
Algorithms and Applications”,Second completely Revised and Enlarged Edition 
4. Milan Sonka, Vaclav Hlavac, Roger Boyle, “Image Processing Analysis and Machine 
Vision”, Second Edition, Cengage Learning. 
References: 
 
1. Chiranji  Lal  Chowdhary, Mamoun Alazab, Ankit Chaudhary, SaqibHakak and Thippa 
Reddy Gadekallu ,”Computer Vision and Recognition Systems Using Machine and 
Deep Learning Approaches, Fundamentals, technologies and applications” , IET 
COMPUTING SERIES 42 
2 Joe Minichino Joseph Howse ,”Learning OpenCV 3 Computer Vision with Python”, 
Second Edition, Packt Publishing Ltd. 
3. Alexander Hornberg,, “ Handbook of Machine and Computer Vision The Guide for 
Developers and  Users,  
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment: 
Assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The first-class test is to be 
conducted when approx. 40% syllabus is completed and second class test when 
additional40% syllabus is completed. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 Question paper will consist of 6 questions, each carrying 20 marks. 
2 The students need to solve a total of 4 questions. 
3 Question No.1 will be compulsory and based on the entire syllabus. 
4 Remaining question (Q.2 to Q.6) will be selected from all the modules. 
 
 
Useful Links 
1 https://nptel.ac.in/courses/108103174 
2 https://www.coursera.org/learn/introduction-computer-vision-watson-opencv 
3 https://www.udacity.com/course/introduction-to-computer-vision--ud810 
4 https://onlinecourses.nptel.ac.in/noc21_ee23/preview 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course Code                      Course Title Credit 
CSDC7012 Quantum Computing 3 
Prerequisite:  Engineering Mathematics, Data Structures and Algorithm, Python Programming 
Course Objectives: 
1 To understand basics of quantum computing 
2 To understand mathematics required for quantum computing 
3 To understand building blocks of quantum computing and design algorithms 
4 To understand quantum hardware principles and tools for quantum computing. 
 
Course Outcomes:  After successful completion of the course student will be able to 
1 Understand  basic concepts of quantum computing 
2 Illustrate building blocks of quantum computing through architecture and 
programming models. 
3 Appraise various  mathematical models required for quantum computing 
4 Discuss various  quantum hardware building principles. 
5 Identify the various  quantum algorithms 
6 Describe  usage of tools for quantum computing. 
Module                     Content Hrs 
1.0  Introduction to Quantum Computing 7 
 1.1 
 
 
1.2 
Motivation for studying Quantum Computing 
Origin of Quantum Computing 
 Quantum Computer vs. Classical Computer 
Introduction to Quantum mechanics 
Overview of major concepts in Quantum Computing 
Qubits and multi-qubits states 
Bloch Sphere representation 
Quantum Superposition 
Quantum Entanglement  
Major players in the industry (IBM, Microsoft, Rigetti, D-Wave 
etc.) 
 
2.0  Mathematical Foundations for Quantum Computing  05 
 2.1 Matrix Algebra: basis vectors and orthogonality, inner product and 
Hilbert spaces, matrices  and tensors, unitary operators and 
projectors, Dirac notation, Eigen values and Eigen vectors.  
 
3.0  Building Blocks for Quantum Program 08 
 
 
 3.1 
 
 
 
 
 
3.2 
Architecture of a Quantum Computing platform 
Details of q-bit system of information representation: 
Block Sphere 
Multi-qubits States Quantum superposition of qubits (valid and 
invalid superposition) 
Quantum Entanglement 
Useful states from quantum algorithmic perceptive e.g. Bell State 
Operation on qubits: Measuring and transforming using gates. 
Quantum Logic gates and Circuit 
No Cloning Theorem and Teleportation 
 
Programming model for a Quantum Computing Program 
Steps performed on classical computer 
 Steps performed on Quantum Computer 
 Moving data between bits and qubits. 
 
4.0  Quantum Algorithms and Error correction 06 
 4.1 
 
4.2 
Quantum Algorithms, Shor’s Algorithm, Grover’s Algorithm. 
Deutsch’s Algorithm, Deutsch -Jozsa Algorithm  
Quantum error correction using repetition codes 
3 qubit codes, Shor’s 9 qubit error correction Code 
 
 
 
5.0  Quantum Hardware  10 
 5.1 
 
5.2 
 
5.3 
 
 
 
 
5.4 
Ion Trap Qubits ,The DiVincenzo Criteria , Lagrangian and 
Hamiltonian Dynamics in a Nutshell : Dynamics of a Translating 
Rotor  
Quantum Mechanics of a Free Rotor: A Poor Person’s Atomic  
Model: Rotor Dynamics and the Hadamard Gate, Two-Qubit Gates 
The Cirac -Zoller Mechanism: Quantum Theory of Simple 
Harmonic Motion , A Phonon -Qubit Pair Hamiltonian, Light -
Induced Rotor -Phonon Interactions, Trapped Ion Qubits , Mølmer-
Sørenson Coupling .. 
Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics (cQED) : Eigenstates of the 
Jaynes-Cummings Hamiltonian  
Circuit QED (cirQED) : Quantum LC Circuits , Artificial Atoms , 
Superconducting Qubits  
Quantum computing with spins: 
Quantum inverter realized with two exchange coupled spins in 
quantum dots, A 2-qubit spintronic universal quantum gate. 
 
6.0  OSS Toolkits for implementing Quantum program 03 
 6.1 IBM quantum experience  
Microsoft Q  
Rigetti PyQuil (QPU/QVM)  
 
Textbooks: 
1 Michael A. Nielsen, “Quantum Computation and Quantum Information”, Cambridge 
University Press. 
2 David McMahon, “Quantum Computing Explained”, Wiley ,2008 
3 Qiskit textbook https://qiskit.org/textbook-beta/ 
4 Vladimir Silva, Practical Quantum Computing for Developers,2018 
 
 
Assessment: 
Internal Assessment: 
Assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The first class test is to be conducted 
when approx. 40% syllabus is completed and second class test when additional 40% syllabus is 
completed. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 Question paper will comprise of total six questions. 
2 All question carries equal marks 
3 Questions will be mixed in nature (for example supposed Q.2 has part (a) from module 3 
then part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4 Only Four question need to be solved. 
5 In question paper weightage of each module will be proportional to number of respective 
lecture hours as mention in the syllabus. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
References: 
1 Bernard Zygelman, A First Introduction to Quantum Computing and Information,2018 
2 Supriyo Bandopadhyay and Marc Cahy, “Introduction to Spintronics”, CRC Press, 2008 
3 The Second Quantum Revolution: From Entanglement to Quantum Computing and Other 
Super-Technologies, Lars Jaeger 
4 La Guardia, Giuliano Gladioli “Quantum Error correction codes”Springer,2021 
 
Digital References: 
https://onlinecourses.nptel.ac.in/noc21_cs103/preview 
https://www.coursera.org/courses?query=quantum%20computing 
https://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/teaching/1617/QuantComp/ 
 
 
Course Code Course Name Credit 
CSDC 7013 Natural Language Processing 03 
 
 
Pre-requisite: Theory of Computer Science, System Programming &Compiler Construction 
Course Objectives: The course aims 
1 To define natural language processing and to learn various stages of natural language 
processing. 
2 To describe basic concepts and algorithmic description of the main language levels:  
Morphology, Syntax, Semantics, and Pragmatics &Discourse analysis. 
3 To design and implement various language models and POS tagging techniques.          
4 To design and learn NLP applications such as Information Extraction, Question answering. 
5 To design and implement applications based on natural language processing. 
Course Outcomes:Students will be able 
1 To describe the field of natural language processing. 
2 To design language model for word level analysis for text processing. 
3 To design various POS tagging techniques and parsers. 
4 To design, implement and test algorithms for semantic and pragmatic analysis. 
5 To formulate the discourse segmentation and anaphora resolution. 
6  To apply NLP techniques to design real world NLP applications. 
 
 
Module  Detailed Content Hours 
1 1.1 Introduction to NLP 3 
  
Origin & History of  NLP; Language, Knowledge and Grammar in 
language processing; Stages in NLP;Ambiguities and its types in 
English and Indian Regional Llanguages; Challenges of 
NLP;Applications of  NLP 
 
 1.2 Self-Learning topics: Variety types of tools for regional languages 
pre-processing and other functionalities  
2 2.1 Word Level Analysis 9 
  
Basic Terms: Tokenization, Stemming, Lemmatization; Survey of 
English Morphology, Inflectional Morphology, Derivational 
Morphology; Regular expression with types; 
Morphological Models: Dictionary lookup, finite state morphology; 
Morphological parsing with FST (Finite State  Transducer);Lexicon 
free FST Porter Stemmer algorithm; Grams and its variation: Bigram, 
Trigram; Simple (Unsmoothed) N-grams; 
N-gram Sensitivity to the Training Corpus; Unknown Words: Open 
versus closed vocabulary tasks; Evaluating N-grams: Perplexity; 
 
 
Smoothing: Laplace Smoothing, Good-Turing Discounting; 
 2.2 Self-Learning topics: Noisy channel models, various edit distance, 
Advance Issues in Language Modelling  
3 3.1 Syntax analysis 10 
  
Part-Of-Speech tagging(POS); Tag set for English (Upenn Treebank); 
Difficulties /Challenges in POS tagging; Rule-based, Stochastic and 
Transformation-based tagging; Generative Model: Hidden Markov 
Model (HMM Viterbi) for POS tagging; 
Issues in HMM POS tagging; Discriminative Model: Maximum 
Entropy model, Conditional random Field (CRF);Parsers: Top down 
and Bottom up; Modelling constituency; Bottom Up Parser: CYK, 
PCFG (Probabilistic Context Free Grammar), Shift Reduce Parser; Top 
Down Parser: Early Parser, Predictive Parser 
 
 3.2 Self-Learning topics: Evaluating parsers, Parsers based language 
modelling, Regional languages POS tree banks  
4 4.1 Semantic Analysis 7 
  
Introduction, meaning representation; Lexical Semantics; Corpus 
study; Study of Various language dictionaries like WorldNet, Babelnet; 
Relations among lexemes & their senses –Homonymy, Polysemy, 
Synonymy, Hyponymy; Semantic Ambiguity; 
Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD); Knowledge based approach( 
Lesk’s Algorithm), Supervised (Naïve Bayes, Decision 
List),Introduction to Semi-supervised method (Yarowsky) 
Unsupervised (Hyperlex) 
 
 4.2 Self-Learning topics: Dictionaries for regional languages, 
Distributional Semantics, Topic Models  
5 5.1 Pragmatic  & Discourse Processing 5 
  
Discourse: Reference Resolution, Reference Phenomena, Syntactic & 
Semantic constraint on coherence; Anaphora Resolution using Hobbs 
and Cantering Algorithm 
 
 5.2 Self-Learning topics: Discourse segmentation, Conference resolution  
6 6.1 Applications of NLP 5 
  
Case studies on (preferable in regional language):Machine 
translation; Text Summarization; Sentiment analysis; Information 
retrieval; Question Answering system 
 
 6.2 
Self-Learning topics: Applications based on Deep Neural 
Network with NLP such as LSTM network, Recurrent Neural 
network etc. 
 
 
Textbooks: 
1 Daniel Jurafsky, James H. and Martin, Speech and Language Processing, Second Edition, 
Prentice Hall, 2008. 
2 Christopher D.Manning and HinrichSchutze, Foundations of Statistical Natural Language 
Processing, MIT Press, 1999. 
 
References: 
1 Siddiqui and Tiwary U.S., Natural Language Processing and Information Retrieval, Oxford 
University Press, 2008. 
2 Daniel M Bikel and ImedZitouni ― Multilingual natural language processing applications: 
 
from theory to practice, IBM Press, 2013. 
3 Alexander Clark, Chris Fox, Shalom Lappin ― The Handbook of Computational 
Linguistics and Natural Language Processing, John Wiley and Sons, 2012. 
4 Nitin Indurkhya and Fred J. Damerau, ―Handbook of Natural Language Processing, 
Second Edition, Chapman and Hall/CRC Press, 2010. 
5 Niel J le Roux and SugnetLubbe, A step by step tutorial: An introduction into R 
application and programming. 
6 Steven Bird, Ewan Klein and Edward Loper, Natural language processing with Python: 
analyzing text with the natural language toolkit, O‘Reilly Media, 2009. 
 
Digital References : 
1 http://www.cse.iitb.ac.in/~cs626-449 
2 http://cse24-iiith.virtual-labs.ac.in/# 
3. https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106105158 
 
Assessment: 
Internal Assessment: 
Assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The first -class test is to be conducted 
when approx. 40% syllabus is completed and second class test when additional 40% syllabus is 
completed. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 Question paper will consist of 6 questions, each carrying 20 marks. 
2 The students need to solve a total of 4 questions. 
3 Question No.1 will be compulsory and based on the entire syllabus. 
4 Remaining question (Q.2 to Q.6) will be selected from all the modules. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  ,  
Course Code Course Name Credit 
CSDC7021 Augmented and Virtual Reality 03 
 
 
Prerequisite: Computer Graphics 
 
Course Objectives: The course aims: 
1 To understand the need and significance of Virtual Reality. 
2 To explore the concepts of Virtual reality and develop 3D virtual environments. 
3 To understand the technical and engineering aspects of virtual reality systems. 
4 To analyze various techniques for applying virtual reality. 
5 To provide a foundation to the fast growing field of AR and make the students aware of the 
various AR devices. 
 
Course Outcomes: Learners will be able to 
1:      Describe how VR systems work and list the applications of VR 
2: Elaborate geometric presentationof the virtual world and its operations. 
3: Explain the concepts of motion and tracking in VR systems. 
4: Design and implementation of the hardware that enables VR systems tobe built. 
5: Describe how AR systems work and analyze the hardware requirement of AR 
6: Analyze and understand the working of various state of the art AR devices. 
 
 
Module  Detailed Content Hours 
1  Introduction to Virtual Reality 5 
  What is virtual reality? ,The beginnings of VR , VR paradigms , 
Collaboration, Virtual reality systems, Representation ,User interaction  
 
2  The Geometry of Virtual Worlds  6 
  Geometric Models, Changing Position and Orientation, Axis -Angle 
Representations of Rotation, Viewing Transformations, Chaining the 
Transformations 
 
3  Motion in Real and Virtual Worlds  6 
  Velocities and Accelerations , The Vestibular System , Physics in the Virtual 
World , Mismatched Motion and Vection 
 
4  Applying Virtual Reality 7 
  Virtual reality: the medium, Form and genre, What makes an application a 
good candidate for VR, Promising  application fields, Demonstrated benefits 
of virtual reality , More recent trends in virtual reality application 
development, A framework for VR application development 
 
5  Augmented Reality 8 
  Terminology, Simple augmented reality, Augmented reality as an emerging 
technology, Augmented reality applications, Marker detection, Marker pose,  
Marker types and identification: Template markers, 2D bar-code markers, 
Imperceptible markers: Image markers, Infrared markers, Miniature markers, 
Discussion on marker use, General marker detection application 
 
6  AR Development & Applications  
 
  User interfaces, Avoiding physical contacts , Practical experiences with  
head-mounted displays , Authoring and dynamic content ,AR applications 
and future visions, How to design an AR application ,Technology adoption 
and acceptance , Where to use augmented reality 
 
 
 
 
Textbooks: 
1 Virtual Reality, Steven M. LaValle, Cambridge University Press, 2016 
2 Understanding Virtual Reality: Interface, Application and Design, William R Sherman and 
Alan B Craig, (The Morgan Kaufmann Series in Computer Graphics)”. Morgan Kaufmann 
Publishers, San Francisco, CA, 2002 
3 Developing Virtual Reality Applications: Foundations of Effective Design, Alan B 
Craig,William R Sherman and Jeffrey D Will, Morgan Kaufmann, 2009. 
4 Theory and applications of marker-based augmented reality SanniSiltanen 
 
References: 
1 AR Game Development‖, 1st Edition,Allan Fowler, A press Publications, 2018, ISBN 978- 
1484236178 
2 Augmented Reality: Principles & Practice by Schmalstieg / Hollerer, Pearson Education 
India; 
First edition (12 October 2016),ISBN-10: 9332578494 
3 Learning Virtual Reality, Tony Parisi,O’Reilly Media, Inc., 2015, ISBN- 9781491922835 
 
  
Digital Useful Links 
1 https://freevideolectures.com/course/3693/virtual-reality 
2 https://www.vrlabacademy.com/ 
3 https://arvr.google.com/ar/ 
4 https://konterball.com/ 
 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment: 
Assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The first -class test is to be conducted 
when approx. 40% syllabus is completed and second class test when additional40% syllabus is 
completed. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 Question paper will consist of 6 questions, each carrying 20 marks. 
2 The students need to solve a total of 4 questions. 
3 Question No.1 will be compulsory and based on the entire syllabus. 
4 Remaining question (Q.2 to Q.6) will be selected from all the modules. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course Code: Course Title Credit 
CSDC7022 Blockchain 3 
 
Prerequisite: Cryptography and System Security 
Course Objectives: 
1 Understand blockchain platforms and its terminologies. 
2 Understand the use of cryptography required for blockchain. 
3 Understand smart contracts, wallets, and consensus protocols. 
4 Design and develop blockchain applications 
 
Course Outcomes: 
1 Explain blockchain concepts. 
2 Apply cryptographic hash required for blockchain. 
3 Apply the concepts of smart contracts for an application. 
4 Design a public blockchain using Ethereum. 
5 Design a private blockchain using Hyperledger. 
6 Use different types of tools for blockchain applications. 
 
Module   Content Hrs 
1   Introduction to Blockchain  6 
 1.1 What is a blockchain, Origin of blockchain (cryptographically secure 
hash functions), Foundation of blockchain: Merkle trees 
  
 1.2 Components of blockchain, Block in blockchain, Types: Public, 
Private, and Consortium, Consensus Protocol, Limitations and 
Challenges of blockchain 
  
2  Cryptocurrency 6 
 2.1 Cryptocurrency: Bitcoin, Altcoin, and Tokens (Utility and Security), 
Cryptocurrency wallets: Hot and cold wallets,  Cryptocurrency usage, 
Transactions in Blockchain, UTXO and double spending problem 
 
 2.2 Bitcoin blockchain: Consensus in Bitcoin, Proof -of-Work (PoW), 
Proof-of-Burn (PoB), Proof -of-Stake (PoS), and Proof -of-Elapsed 
Time (PoET), Life of a miner, Mining d ifficulty, Mining pool and its 
methods 
 
3  Programming for Blockchain 8 
 3.1 Introduction to Smart Contracts, Types of Smart Contracts, Structure 
of a Smart Contract, Smart Contract Approaches,  Limitations of 
Smart Contracts 
 
 3.2 Introduction to Programming: Solidity Programming – Basics, 
functions, Visibility and Activity Qualifiers, Address and Address 
Payable, Bytes and Enums, Arrays -Fixed and Dynamic Arrays, 
Special Arrays-Bytes and strings, Struct, Mapping, Inheritance, Error 
handling 
 
 3.3 Case Study – Voting Contract App, Preparing for smart contract 
development 
 
 
4  Public Blockchain 8 
  Introduction to Public Blockchain, Ethereum and its Components, 
Mining in Ethereum, Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM), Transaction, 
Accounts, Architecture a nd Workflow, Comparison between Bitcoin 
and Ethereum 
 
  Types of test -networks used in Ethereum, Transferring Ethers using 
Metamask, Mist Wallet, Ethereum frameworks, Case study of 
Ganache for Ethereum blockchain. Exploring etherscan.io and ether 
block structure 
 
5  Private Blockchain 8 
 5.1 Introduction, Key characteristics, Need of Private Blockchain, Smart 
Contract in a Private Environment, State Machine Replication, 
Consensus Algorithms for Private Blockchain - PAXOS and RAFT, 
Byzantine Faults: Byzantine Fault Tolerant (BFT) and Practical BFT   
 
 5.2 Introduction to Hyperledger, Tools and Frameworks, Hyperledger 
Fabric, Comparison between Hyperledger Fabric & Other 
Technologies 
 
 5.3 Hyperledger Fabric Architecture, Components of Hyperledger Fabric: 
MSP, Chain Codes, Transaction Flow, Working of Hyperledger 
Fabric, Creating Hyperledger Network, Case Study of Supply Chain 
Management using Hyperledger 
 
6  Tools and Applications of Blockchain 3 
  Corda, Ripple, Quorum and other Emerging Blockchain Platforms, 
Blockchain in DeFi: Case Study on any of the Blockchain Platforms. 
 
 
Textbooks: 
1 Blockchain Technology, Chandramouli Subramanian, Asha A. George, Abhillash K. A and 
Meena Karthikeyen, Universities Press. 
2 Mastering Ethereum, Building Smart Contract and Dapps, Andreas M. Antonopoulos Dr. 
Gavin Wood, O’reilly.   
3 Imran Bashir, Mastering Blockchain: A deep dive into distributed ledgers, consensus 
protocols, smart contracts, DApps , cryptocurrencies, Ethereum, and more, 3rd Edition, Packt 
Publishing 
 
References: 
1 Blockchain for Beginners, Yathish R and  Tejaswini N, SPD 
2 Blockchain Basics, A non Technical Introduction in 25 Steps, Daniel Drescher, Apress. 
3 Blockchain with Hyperledger Fabric, Luc Desrosiers , Nitin Gaur , Salman A. Baset , 
Venkatraman Ramakrishna, Packt Publishing 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment: 
Assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The first class test is to be conducted 
when approx. 40% syllabus is completed and second class test when additional 40% syllabus is 
completed. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
 
 
 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 Question paper will comprise a total of six questions. 
2 All question carries equal marks 
3 Questions will be mixed in nature (for example supposed Q.2 has part (a) from module 3 then 
part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4 Only Four question need to be solved. 
5 In question paper weightage of each module will be proportional to the number of respective 
lecture hours as mention in the syllabus. 
 
Digital Useful Links  
1 Blockchain By Example, Bellaj  Badr, Richard Horrocks, Xun (Brian) Wu, November 2018, 
Implement decentralized blockchain applications to build scalable Dapps. 
2 Blockchain for Business, https://www.ibm.com/downloads/cas/3EGWKGX7. 
3 https://www.hyperledger.org/use/fabric 
4 NPTEL: https://onlinecourses.nptel.ac.in/noc19_cs63/preview  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course Code           Course Name Credit 
CSDC7023 Information Retrieval 03 
 
 
Prerequisite: Data structures and algorithms 
Course Objectives: The course aims students : 
1 To learn the fundamentals of Information Retrieval  
2 To analyze various Information retrieval modeling techniques 
3 To understand query processing and its applications 
4   To explore the various indexing and scoring techniques 
5 To assess the various evaluation methods 
6 To analyze various information retrieval for real world application 
Course Outcomes: Learner will be able to: - 
1 Define and describe the basic concepts of the Information retrieval system. 
2  Design the various modeling techniques for information retrieval systems. 
3 Understand the query structure and various query operations 
4   Analyzing the indexing and scoring operation in information retrieval systems 
5 Perform the evaluation of information retrieval systems 
6 Analyze various information retrieval for real world application 
 
Module  Detailed Content Hours 
1  Introduction to Information Retrieval  
 
 
4 
 1.1 Introduction to Information Retrieval, Basic Concepts, 
Information Versus Data, Trends and research issues in 
information retrieval. 
1.2 The retrieval process, Information retrieval in the library, web and 
digital libraries. 
2  Modeling in Information Retrieval  
 
 
8 
 2.1 Taxonomy of Information Retrieval models, Classic Information 
Retrieval, Alternate set: Theoretical model, Alternative Algebraic 
models, Alternative Probabilistic models 
 2.2 Structured text Retrieval models, Models for browsing 
3  Query and Operations in Information Retrieval  
 
8 
 3.1 Query structures, Keyboard based querying, Pattern matching, 
Structured queries 
 3.2 User relevance feedback, Automatic local  analysis, Automatic global 
analysis 
4  Indexing and Scoring in Information Systems   
 
8 
 4.1 Introduction, Inverted Files, Other Indices for Text, Boolean queries 
and Introduction to Sequential searching 
 
 4.2 Scoring, term weighting and the vector space model, Parametric and 
zone indexes, Weighted zone scoring, Learning weights, The optimal 
weight, Term frequency and weighting, Inverse document frequency, 
Tf-idf weighting. 
The vector space model for scoring, Qu eries as vectors, Computing 
vector scores, Efficient scoring and ranking, Inexact top K document 
retrieval 
 
5  Evaluation of Information Retrieval Systems   
 
 
6 
    5.1 Information retrieval system evaluation, Standard test collections, 
Evaluation of unranked retrieval sets, Evaluation of ranked retrieval 
results, Assessing and justifying the concept of relevance  
 5.2 System quality and user utility, System issues, Refining a deployed 
system 
6.   Applications of Information Retrieval Systems   
 
5 
 6.1. Introduction to Multimedia Information Retrieval 
 6.2 Introduction to Distributed Information Retrieval 
 
 
Textbooks: 
1 Modern information retrieval, Baeza-Yates, R. and Ribeiro-Neto, B., 1999. ACM press. 
2 Introduction to Information Retrieval By Christopher D. Manning and PrabhakarRaghavan, 
Cambridge University Press 
3 Information Storage & Retrieval By Robert Korfhage – John Wiley & Sons 
 
References: 
1 Storage Network Management and Retrieval, VaishaliKhairnar 
2 Introduction to Modern Information Retrieval. G.G. Chowdhury. NealSchuman 
3 Natural Language Processing and Information Retrieval by Tanveer Siddiqui, U.S Tiwarey 
 
Useful Digital Links 
1 https://web.stanford.edu/class/cs276/ 
2 https://www.coursera.org/learn/text-retrieval 
 
 
Assessment: 
Internal Assessment: 
Assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The first -class test is to be conducted 
when approx. 40% syllabus is completed and second class test when additional 40% syllabus 
is completed. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 Question paper will consist of 6 questions, each carrying 20 marks. 
2 The students need to solve a total of 4 questions. 
3 Question No.1 will be compulsory and based on the entire syllabus. 
4 Remaining question (Q.2 to Q.6) will be selected from all the modules. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course  Code Course Name Credits  
ILO 7011 Product Life Cycle Management 03 
 
Objectives: 
1. To familiarize the students with the need, benefits and components of PLM 
2. To acquaint students with Product Data Management & PLM strategies  
3. To give insights into new product development program and guidelines for designing and 
developing a product 
4. To familiarize the students with Virtual Product Development 
Outcomes: Learner will be able to… 
1. Gain knowledge about phases of PLM, PLM strategies and methodology for PLM 
feasibility study and PDM implementation.  
2. Illustrate various approaches and techniques for designing and developing products.  
3. Apply product engineering guidelines / thumb rules in designing products for moulding, 
machining, sheet metal working etc.  
4. Acquire knowledge in applying virtual product development tools for  components, 
machining and manufacturing plant 
 
Sr. No. Detailed Contents Hrs 
01 
Introduction to Product Lifecycle Management (PLM): Product Lifecycle 
Management (PLM), Need for PLM,  Product Lifecycle Phases, Opportunities of 
Globalization, Pre -PLM Environment, PLM Paradigm, Importance & Benefits 
of PLM, Widespread Impact of PLM, Focus and Application, A PLM Project, 
Starting the PLM Initiative, PLM Applications 
PLM Strategies: Industrial strategies, Strategy elements, its identification, 
selection a nd implementation, Developing PLM Vision and PLM Strategy , 
Change management for PLM 
10 
02 
Product Design: Product Design and Development Process, Engineering 
Design, Organization and Decomposition in Product Design, Typologies of 
Design Process Models, Reference Model, Product Design in the Context of the 
Product Development Process, Relation with the Development Process Planning 
Phase, Relation with the Post design Planning Phase, Methodological Evolution 
in Product Design, Concurrent Engineering, Chara cteristic Features of 
Concurrent Engineering, Concurrent Engineering and Life Cycle Approach, 
New Product Development (NPD) and Strategies, Product Configuration and 
Variant Management, The Design for X System, Objective Properties and 
Design for X Tools, Choice of Design for X Tools and Their Use in the Design 
Process 
09 
03 
Product Data Management (PDM):Product and Product Data, PDM systems 
and importance, Components of PDM, Reason for implementing a PDM system, 
financial justification of PDM, barriers to PDM implementation 
05 
04 
Virtual Product Development Tools: For components, machines, and 
manufacturing plants, 3D CAD systems and realistic rendering techniques, 
Digital mock-up, Model building, Model analysis, Modeling and simulations in 
Product Design, Examples/Case studies 
05 
 
05 
Integration of Environmental Aspects in Product Design: Sustainable 
Development, Design for Environment, Need for Life Cycle Environmental 
Strategies, Useful Life Extension Strategies, End-of-Life Strategies, Introduction 
of Environmental Strategies into the Design Process, Life Cycle Environmental 
Strategies and Considerations for Product Design 
05 
06 
Life Cycle Assessment and Life Cycle Cost Analysis: Properties, and 
Framework of Life Cycle Assessment, Phases of LCA in ISO Standards, Fields 
of Application and Limitations of Life Cycle Assessment, Cost Analysis and the 
Life Cycle Approach, General Framework for LCCA, Evolution of Models for 
Product Life Cycle Cost Analysis 
05 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment for 20 marks: 
Consisting Two Compulsory Class Tests 
First test based on approximately 40% of contents and second test based on remaining contents 
(approximately 40% but excluding contents covered in Test I) 
 
End Semester Examination:   
Weightage of each module in  end semester examination will be proportional to number of 
respective lecture hours mentioned in the curriculum. 
1. Question paper will comprise of total six questions, each carrying 20 marks 
2. Question 1  will be compulsory and should cover maximum contents of  the 
curriculum 
3. Remaining questions will be mixed in nature  (for example if Q.2 has part (a) from 
module 3 then  part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4. Only Four questions need to be solved. 
 
 
 
REFERENCES: 
1. John Stark, “Product Lifecycle Management: Paradigm for 21st Century Product 
Realisation”, Springer-Verlag, 2004. ISBN: 1852338105 
2. Fabio Giudice, Guido La Rosa, Antonino Risitano, “Product Design for the environment-
A life cycle approach”, Taylor & Francis 2006, ISBN: 0849327229 
3. Saaksvuori Antti, Immonen Anselmie, “Product Life Cycle Management”, Springer, 
Dreamtech, ISBN: 3540257314  
4. Michael Grieve, “Product Lifecycle Management: Driving the next generation of lean 
thinking”, Tata McGraw Hill, 2006, ISBN: 0070636265 
  
 
 
Course  Code Course Name Credits  
ILO 7012 Reliability Engineering 03 
 
Objectives: 
1. To familiarize the students with various aspects of probability theory 
2. To  acquaint the students with reliability and its concepts 
3. To introduce the students  to methods of estimating the system reliability of simple and 
complex systems 
4. To understand the various aspects of Maintainability, Availability and FMEA procedure 
Outcomes: Learner will be able to… 
1. Understand and apply the concept of Probability to engineering problems 
2. Apply various reliability concepts to calculate different reliability parameters 
3. Estimate the system reliability of simple and complex systems 
4. Carry out a Failure Mode Effect and Criticality Analysis 
 
Sr. No Detailed Contents Hrs 
01 
Probability theory: Probability: Standard definitions and concepts; Conditional 
Probability, Baye’s Theorem. 
Probability Distributions: Central tendency and Dispersion; Binomial, Normal, 
Poisson, Weibull, Exponential, relations between them and their significance. 
Measures of Dispersion: Mean, Median, Mode, Range, Mean Deviation, 
Standard Deviation, Variance, Skewness and Kurtosis. 
08 
02 
Reliability Concepts: Reliability definitions, Importance of Reliability, Quality 
Assurance and Reliability, Bath Tub Curve. 
Failure Data Analysis:  Hazard rate, failure density, Failure Rate, Mean Time 
To Failure (MTTF), MTBF, Reliability Functions. 
Reliability Hazard Models:  Constant Failure Rate, Linearly increasing, Time 
Dependent Failure Rate, Weibull Model. Distribut ion functions and reliability 
analysis. 
08 
03 System Reliability: System Configurations: Series, parallel, mixed 
configuration, k out of n structure, Complex systems. 
05 
04 
Reliability Improvement: Redundancy Techniques: Element redundancy, Unit 
redundancy, Standby redundancies. Markov analysis. 
System Reliability Analysis – Enumeration method, Cut-set method, Success 
Path method, Decomposition method. 
08 
05 
Maintainability and Availability: System downtime, Design for 
Maintainability: Maintenance requirements, Design methods: Fault Isolation and 
self-diagnostics, Parts standardization and Interchangeability, Modularization 
and Accessibility, Repair Vs Replacement. 
Availability – qualitative aspects. 
05 
06 
Failure Mode, Effects and Criticality Analysis: Failure mode effects analysis, 
severity/criticality analysis, FMECA examples. Fault tree construction, basic 
symbols, development of functional reliability block diagram, Fau1t tree 
analysis and Event tree Analysis 
05 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment for 20 marks: 
Consisting Two Compulsory Class Tests 
First test based on approximately 40% of contents and second test based on remaining contents 
(approximately 40% but excluding contents covered in Test I) 
 
End Semester Examination:   
Weightage of each module in end semester examination will be proportional to number of 
respective lecture hours mentioned in the curriculum. 
1. Question paper will comprise of total six questions, each carrying 20 marks 
2. Question 1 will be compulsory and should cover maximum contents of the 
curriculum 
3. Remaining questions will be mixed in nature  (for example if Q.2 has part (a) from 
module 3 then  part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4. Only Four questions need to be solved. 
 
 
 
REFERENCES: 
1. L.S. Srinath, “Reliability Engineering”, Affiliated East-Wast Press (P) Ltd., 1985. 
2. Charles E. Ebeling, “Reliability and Maintainability Engineering”, Tata McGraw Hill. 
3. B.S. Dhillion, C. Singh, “Engineering Reliability”, John Wiley & Sons, 1980. 
4. P.D.T. Conor, “Practical Reliability Engg.”, John Wiley & Sons, 1985. 
5. K.C. Kapur, L.R. Lamberson, “Reliability in Engineering Design”, John Wiley & Sons. 
6. Murray R. Spiegel, “Probability and Statistics”, Tata McGraw-Hill Publishing Co. Ltd. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Course  Code Course Name Credits  
ILO 7013 Management Information System 03 
 
Objectives: 
1. The course is blend of Management and Technical field. 
2. Discuss the roles played by information technology in today’s business and define 
various technology architectures on which information systems are built 
3. Define and analyze typical functional information systems and identify how they meet 
the needs of the firm to deliver efficiency and competitive advantage 
4. Identify the basic steps in systems development 
Outcomes: Learner will be able to… 
1. Explain how information systems Transform Business 
2. Identify the impact information systems have on an organization 
3. Describe IT infrastructure and its components and its current trends 
4. Understand  the principal tools and technologies for accessing information from 
databases to improve business performance and decision making 
5. Identify the types of systems used for enterprise -wide knowledge management and how 
they provide value for businesses 
 
Sr. No. Detailed Contents Hrs 
01 
Introduction To Information Systems (IS): Computer Based Information 
Systems, Impact of IT on organizations, Importance of IS to Society. 
Organizational Strategy, Competitive Advantages and IS 
4 
02 
Data and Knowledge Management: Database Approach, Big Data, Data 
warehouse and Data Marts, Knowledge Management 
Business intelligence (BI): Managers and Decision Making, BI for Data analysis 
and Presenting Results   
7 
03 Ethical issues and Privacy: Information Security. Threat to IS, and Security 
Controls 7 
04 
Social Computing (SC): Web 2.0 and 3.0, SC in business -shopping, Marketing, 
Operational and Analytic CRM,  E -business and E -commerce – B2B B2C. 
Mobile commerce. 
7 
05 Computer Networks Wired and Wireless technology, Pervasive computing, 
Cloud computing model. 6 
06 
Information System within Organization: Transaction Processing Systems, 
Functional Area Information System, ERP and ERP support of Business Process. 
Acquiring Information Systems and Applications: Various System development 
life cycle models. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment for 20 marks: 
Consisting Two Compulsory Class Tests 
First test based on approximately 40% of contents and second test based on remaining contents 
(approximately 40% but excluding contents covered in Test I) 
 
End Semester Examination:   
Weightage of each module in end semester examination will be proportional to number of 
respective lecture hours mentioned in the curriculum. 
1. Question paper will comprise of total six questions, each carrying 20 marks 
2. Question 1  will be compulsory and should cover maximum contents of the 
curriculum 
3. Remaining questions will be mixed in nature  (for example if Q.2 has part (a) from 
module 3 then  part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4. Only Four questions need to be solved. 
 
 
 
REFERENCES: 
1. Kelly Rainer, Brad Prince, Management Information Systems, Wiley 
2. K.C. Laudon and J.P. Laudon, Management Information Systems: Managing the Digital 
Firm, 10th Ed., Prentice Hall, 2007. 
3. D. Boddy, A. Boonstra, Managing Information Systems: Strategy and Organization, 
Prentice Hall, 2008 
  
 
 
Course  Code Course Name Credits  
ILO 7014 Design of Experiments 03 
 
Objectives: 
1. To understand the issues and principles of Design of Experiments (DOE) 
2. To list the guidelines for designing experiments 
3. To become familiar with methodologies that can be used in conjunction with 
experimental designs for robustness and optimization 
 
Outcomes: Learner will be able to… 
1. Plan data collection, to turn data into information and to make decisions that lead to 
appropriate action 
2. Apply the methods taught to real life situations 
3. Plan, analyze, and interpret the results of experiments 
 
Sr. No Detailed Contents Hrs 
01 
Introduction 
1.1 Strategy of Experimentation 
1.2 Typical Applications of Experimental Design 
1.3 Guidelines for Designing Experiments 
1.4 Response Surface Methodology 
06 
02 
Fitting Regression Models 
2.1 Linear Regression Models 
2.2 Estimation of the Parameters in Linear Regression Models 
2.3 Hypothesis Testing in Multiple Regression 
2.4 Confidence Intervals in Multiple Regression 
2.5 Prediction of new response observation 
2.6 Regression model diagnostics 
2.7 Testing for lack of fit 
08 
03 
Two-Level Factorial Designs 
3.1 The 22 Design 
3.2 The 23 Design 
3.3 The General2k Design 
3.4 A Single Replicate of the 2k Design 
3.5 The Addition of Center Points to the 2k Design, 
3.6 Blocking in the 2k Factorial Design 
3.7 Split-Plot Designs 
07 
04 
Two-Level Fractional Factorial Designs 
4.1 The One-Half Fraction of the 2k Design 
4.2 The One-Quarter Fraction of the 2k Design 
4.3 The General 2k-p Fractional Factorial Design 
4.4 Resolution III Designs 
4.5 Resolution IV and V Designs 
4.6 Fractional Factorial Split-Plot Designs 
07 
05 
Response Surface Methods and Designs 
5.1 Introduction to Response Surface Methodology 
5.2 The Method of Steepest Ascent 
5.3 Analysis of a Second-Order Response Surface 
07 
 
5.4 Experimental Designs for Fitting Response Surfaces 
06 
Taguchi Approach 
6.1 Crossed Array Designs and Signal-to-Noise Ratios 
6.2 Analysis Methods 
6.3 Robust design examples 
04 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment for 20 marks: 
Consisting Two Compulsory Class Tests 
First test based on approximately 40% of contents and second test based on remaining contents 
(approximately 40% but excluding contents covered in Test I) 
 
End Semester Examination:   
Weightage of each module in end semester examination will be proportional to number of 
respective lecture hours mentioned in the curriculum. 
1. Question paper will comprise of total six questions, each carrying 20 marks 
2. Question 1  will be compulsory and should cover maximum contents of the 
curriculum 
3. Remaining questions will be mixed in nature  (for example if Q.2 has part (a) from 
module 3 then  part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4. Only Four questions need to be solved. 
 
 
REFERENCES: 
1. Raymond H. Mayers, Douglas C. Montgomery, Christine M. Anderson-Cook,  Response 
Surface Methodology: Process and Product Optimization using Designed   Experiment, 
3rd edition,John Wiley & Sons, New York, 2001 
2. D.C. Montgomery, Design and Analysis of Experiments, 5th edition, John Wiley & 
Sons, New York, 2001 
3. George E P Box, J Stuart Hunter, William G Hunter, Statics for Experimenters: Design, 
Innovation and Discovery, 2nd Ed. Wiley 
4. W J Dimond, Peactical Experiment Designs for Engineers and Scintists, John Wiley and 
Sons Inc. ISBN: 0-471-39054-2 
5. Design and Analysis of Experiments (Springer text in Statistics), Springer by A.M. Dean, 
and D. T.Voss 
  
 
 
Course  Code Course Name Credits  
ILO 7015 Operations Research 03 
 
Objectives: 
1. Formulate a real-world problem as a mathematical programming model.  
2. Understand the mathematical tools that are needed to solve optimization problems.  
3. Use mathematical software to solve the proposed models. 
Outcomes: Learner will be able to… 
1. Understand the theoretical workings of the simplex method, the relationship between a 
linear program and its dual, including strong duality and complementary slackness. 
2. Perform sensitivity analysis to determine the direction and magnitude of change of a 
model’s optimal solution as the data change.  
3. Solve specialized linear programming problems like the transportation and assignment 
problems, solve network models like the shortest path, minimum spanning tree, and 
maximum flow problems. 
4. Understand the applications of integer programming  and  a queuing model and compute 
important performance measures 
 
Sr. No. Detailed Contents Hrs 
01 
Introduction to Operations Research: Introduction, , Structure of the 
Mathematical Model, Limitations of Operations Research 
Linear Programming: Introduction, Linear Programming Problem, 
Requirements of LPP, Mathematical Formulation of LPP,  Graphical method,  
Simplex Method Penalty Cost Method or Big M -method,  Two Phase Method, 
Revised simplex method,  Duality, Primal – Dual construction, Symmetric and 
Asymmetric Dual, Weak Duality Theorem, Complimentary Slackness Theorem, 
Main Duality Theorem, Dual Simplex Method, Sensitivity Analysis 
Transportation Problem:  Formulation, solution, unbalanced Transportation 
problem. Finding basic fea sible solutions – Northwest corner rule, least cost 
method and Vogel’s approximation method. Optimality test: the stepping stone 
method and MODI method. 
Assignment Problem: Introduction, Mathematical Formulation of the Problem, 
Hungarian Method Algorithm,  Processing of n Jobs Through Two Machines 
and m Machines, Graphical Method of Two Jobs m Machines Problem Routing 
Problem, Travelling Salesman Problem 
Integer Programming Problem: Introduction, Types of Integer Programming 
Problems, Gomory’s cutting plane  Algorithm, Branch and Bound Technique . 
Introduction to Decomposition algorithms. 
14 
02 
Queuing models: queuing systems and structures, single server and multi -server 
models, Poisson input, exponential service, constant rate service, finite and 
infinite population 
05 
03 
Simulation: Introduction, Methodology of Simulation, Basic Concepts, 
Simulation Procedure, Application of Simulation  Monte-Carlo Method:  
Introduction, Monte -Carlo Simulation, Applications of Simulation, Advantages 
05 
 
of Simulation, Limitations of Simulation 
04 
Dynamic programming . Characteristics of dynamic programming. Dynamic 
programming approach for Priority Management employment smoothening, 
capital budgeting, Stage Coach/Shortest Path, cargo loading and Reliability 
problems. 
05 
05 
Game Theory . Competitive games, rectangular game, saddle point, minimax 
(maximin) method of optimal strategies, value of the game. Solution of games 
with saddle points, dominance principle. Rectangular games without saddle 
point – mixed strategy for 2 X 2 games. 
05 
06 Inventory Models : Classical EOQ Models, EOQ Model with Price Breaks, 
EOQ with Shortage, Probabilistic EOQ Model, 05 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment for 20 marks: 
Consisting Two Compulsory Class Tests 
First test based on approximately 40% of contents and second test based on remaining contents 
(approximately 40% but excluding contents covered in Test I) 
 
End Semester Examination:   
Weightage of each module in end semester examination will be proportional to number of 
respective lecture hours mentioned in the curriculum. 
1. Question paper will comprise of total six questions, each carrying 20 marks 
2. Question 1  will be compulsory and should cover maximum contents of the 
curriculum 
3. Remaining questions will be mixed in nature  (for example if Q.2 has part (a) from 
module 3 then  part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4. Only Four questions need to be solved. 
 
 
REFERENCES: 
1. Taha, H.A. "Operations Research - An Introduction", Prentice Hall, (7th Edition), 2002. 
2. Ravindran, A, Phillips, D. T and Solberg, J. J. "Operations Research: Principles and 
Practice", John Willey and Sons, 2nd Edition, 2009 
3. Hiller, F. S. and Liebermann, G. J. "Introduction to Operations Research", Tata McGraw 
Hill, 2002. 
4. Operations Research, S. D. Sharma, KedarNath Ram Nath-Meerut 
5. Operations Research, KantiSwarup, P. K. Gupta and Man Mohan, Sultan Chand & Sons 
 
  
 
 
Course  Code Course Name Credits  
ILO 7016 Cyber Security and Laws 03 
 
Objectives: 
1. To understand and identify different types cybercrime and cyber law 
2. To recognized Indian IT Act 2008 and its latest amendments 
3. To learn various types of security standards compliances 
Outcomes: Learner will be able to… 
1. Understand the concept of cybercrime and its effect on outside world 
2. Interpret and apply IT law in various legal issues 
3. Distinguish different aspects of cyber law 
4. Apply Information Security Standards compliance during software design and 
development 
 
Sr. No. Detailed Contents Hrs 
01 
Introduction to Cybercrime: Cybercrime definition and origins of the world, 
Cybercrime and information security, Classifications of cybercrime, Cybercrime 
and the 
Indian ITA 2000, A global Perspective on cybercrimes. 
4 
02 
Cyber offenses & Cybercrime: How criminal plan the attacks, Social Engg, 
Cyber stalking , Cyber café and Cybercrimes, Botnets, Attack vector, Cloud 
computing, Proliferation of Mobile and Wireless Devices, Trends in Mobility, 
Credit Card Frauds in 
Mobile and Wireless Computing Era, Security Challenges Posed by Mobile 
Devices, Registry Settings for Mobile Devices, Authentication Service Security, 
Attacks on Mobile/Cell Phones, Mobile Devices: Security Implications for 
Organizations, Organizational Measures for Handling Mobile, Devices -Related 
Security Issues, Organizational Security Policies and  Measures in Mobile 
Computing Era, Laptops 
9 
03 
Tools and Methods Used in Cyberline 
Phishing, Password Cracking, Key loggers and Spywares, Virus and Worms, 
Steganography, DoS and  DDoS Attacks, SQL Injection, Buffer Over Flow, 
Attacks on Wireless Networks, Phishing, Identity Theft (ID Theft) 
6 
04 
The Concept of Cyberspace 
 E-Commerce , The Contract Aspects in Cyber Law ,The Security Aspect of 
Cyber Law ,The Intellectual Property Aspect in Cyber Law 
, The Evidence Aspect in Cyber Law ,  The Criminal Aspect in Cyber Law,   
Global Trends in Cyber Law , Legal Framework for Electronic Data 
Interchange  Law Relating to Electronic Banking , The Need for an Indian Cyber 
Law 
8 
05 
Indian IT Act. 
Cyber Crime and Criminal Justice: Penalties, Adjudication and Appeals Under 
the IT Act, 2000,  IT Act. 2008 and its Amendments 
6 
06 Information Security Standard  compliances 
 SOX, GLBA, HIPAA, ISO, FISMA, NERC, PCI.  6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment for 20 marks: 
Consisting Two Compulsory Class Tests 
First test based on approximately 40% of contents and second test based on remaining contents 
(approximately 40% but excluding contents covered in Test I) 
 
End Semester Examination:   
Weightage of each module in end semester examination will be propo rtional to number of 
respective lecture hours mentioned in the curriculum. 
1. Question paper will comprise of total six questions, each carrying 20 marks 
2. Question 1  will be compulsory and should cover maximum contents of the 
curriculum 
3. Remaining questions wil l be mixed in nature  (for example if Q.2 has part (a) from 
module 3 then  part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4. Only Four questions need to be solved. 
 
 
 
REFERENCES: 
1. Nina Godbole, Sunit Belapure, Cyber Security, Wiley India, New Delhi 
2. The Indian Cyber Law by Suresh T. Vishwanathan; Bharat Law House New Delhi 
3. The Information technology Act, 2000; Bare Act - Professional Book Publishers, New 
Delhi. 
4. Cyber Law & Cyber Crimes By Advocate Prashant Mali; Snow White Publications, 
Mumbai 
5. Nina Godbole, Information Systems Security, Wiley India, New Delhi  
6. Kennetch J. Knapp, Cyber Security &Global Information Assurance Information Science 
Publishing. 
7. William Stallings, Cryptography and Network Security, Pearson Publication 
8. Websites for more information is available on :  The Information Technology ACT, 
2008- TIFR : https://www.tifrh.res.in 
9. Website for more information , A Compliance Primer for IT professional  :  
https://www.sans.org/reading-room/whitepapers/compliance/compliance-primer-
professionals-33538    
 
  
 
 
Course  Code Course Name Credits  
ILO 7017 Disaster Management and Mitigation Measures 03 
 
Objectives: 
1. To understand physics and  various types of disaster occurring around the world 
2. To identify extent and damaging capacity of a disaster  
3. To study and understand the means of losses and methods to overcome /minimize it. 
4. To understand role of individual and various organization during and after disaster 
5. To understand application of  GIS in the field of disaster management 
6. To understand the emergency government response structures before, during and 
after disaster 
Outcomes: Learner will be able to… 
1. Get to know natural as well as manmade disaster and their extent and possible effects 
on the economy.  
2. Plan of national importance structures based upon the previous history.  
3. Get acquainted with government policies, acts and various organizational structure 
associated with an emergency. 
4. Get to know the simple do’s and don’ts in such extreme events and act accordingly. 
 
Sr. 
No. Detailed Contents Hrs 
01 
Introduction  
1.1 Definition of Disaster, hazard, global and Indian scenario, general 
perspective, importance of study in human life, Direct and indirect effects 
of disasters, long term effects of disasters. Introduction to global warming 
and climate change.  
03 
02 
Natural Disaster and Manmade disasters: 
2.1 Natural Disaster: Meaning and nature of natural disaster,  Flood, Flash 
flood, drought, cloud burst,  Earthquake, Landslides, Avalanches, 
Volcanic eruptions, Mudflow,  Cyclone, Storm, Storm Surge,  climate 
change, global warming, sea level rise, ozone depletion  
2.2 Manmade Disasters: Chemical, Industrial, Nuclear and Fire Hazards. Role 
of growing population and subsequent industrialization, urbanization and 
changing lifestyle of human beings in frequent occurrences of manmade 
disasters.  
09 
03 
Disaster Management, Policy and Administration 
3.1 Disaster management: meaning, concept, importance, objective of disaster 
management policy, disaster risks in India, Paradigm shift in disaster 
management. 
3.2 Policy and administration:  
Importance and principles of disaster management policies, command and 
co-ordination of in disaster management, rescue operations -how to start 
with and how to proceed in due course of time, study of flowchart showing 
the entire process. 
06 
04 
Institutional Framework for Disaster Management in India:  
4.1 Importance of   public awareness, Preparation and execution of emergency 
management program. Scope and responsibilities of National Institute of 
Disaster Management (NIDM) and National disaster management 
authority (NDMA) in India. M ethods and measures to avoid disasters, 
Management of casualties, set up of emergency facilities, importance of 
effective communication amongst different agencies in such situations. 
06 
 
4.2 Use of Internet and softwares  for effective disaster management. 
Applications of GIS, Remote sensing and GPS in this regard. 
05 
Financing Relief Measures:   
5.1 Ways to raise finance for relief expenditure, role of government agencies 
and NGO’s in this process, Legal aspects relat ed to finance raising as well 
as overall management of disasters. Various NGO’s and the works they 
have carried out in the past on the occurrence of various disasters, Ways to 
approach these teams.  
5.2 International relief aid agencies and their role in extreme events. 
09 
06 
Preventive and Mitigation Measures: 
6.1  Pre-disaster, during disaster and post -disaster measures in some events in 
general 
6.2 Structural mapping: Risk mapping, assessment and analysis, sea walls and 
embankments, Bio shield, shelters, early warning and communication 
6.3 Non Structural Mitigation: Community based disaster preparedness, risk 
transfer and risk financing, capacity development and training, awareness 
and education, contingency plans. 
6.4 Do’s and don’ts in case of disasters and effective implementation of relief 
aids. 
06 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment for 20 marks: 
Consisting Two Compulsory Class Tests 
First test based on approximately 40% of contents and second test based on remaining contents 
(approximately 40% but excluding contents covered in Test I) 
 
End Semester Examination:   
Weightage of each module in end semester examination will be proportional to number of 
respective lecture hours mentioned in the curriculum. 
1. Question paper will comprise of total six questions, each carrying 20 marks 
2. Question 1  will be compulsory and should cover maximum contents of the 
curriculum 
3. Remaining questions will be mixed in nature  (for example if Q.2 has part (a) from 
module 3 then  part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4. Only Four questions need to be solved. 
 
REFERENCES: 
1. ‘Disaster Management’ by Harsh K.Gupta, Universities Press Publications. 
2. ‘Disaster Management: An Appraisal of Institutional Mechanisms in India’ by 
O.S.Dagur, published by Centre for land warfare studies, New Delhi, 2011. 
3. ‘Introduction to International Disaster Management’ by Damon Copolla, Butterworth 
Heinemann Elsevier Publications. 
4. ‘Disaster Management Handbook’ by Jack Pinkowski, CRC Press Taylor and Francis 
group. 
5. ‘Disaster management & rehabilitation’ by Rajdeep Dasgupta, Mittal Publications, New 
Delhi. 
6. ‘Natural Hazards  and Disaster Management, Vulnerability and Mitigation – R B Singh, 
Rawat Publications 
7. Concepts and Techniques of GIS –C.P.Lo Albert, K.W. Yonng  – Prentice Hall (India) 
Publications. 
        
(Learners are expected to refer reports published at national and International level and updated 
information available on authentic web sites) 
 
 
 
 
Course  Code Course Name Credits  
ILO 7018 Energy Audit and Management 03 
 
Objectives: 
1. To understand the importance energy security for sustainable development and the 
fundamentals of energy conservation. 
2. To introduce performance evaluation criteria of various electrical and thermal 
installations to facilitate the energy management   
3. To relate the data collected during performance evaluation of systems for identification 
of energy saving opportunities. 
 
Outcomes: Learner will be able to… 
1.  To identify and describe present state of energy security and its importance. 
2. To identify and describe the basic principles and methodologies adopted in energy audit 
of an utility. 
3. To describe the energy performance evaluation of some common electrical installations 
and identify the energy saving opportunities. 
4. To describe the energy performance evaluation of some common thermal installations 
and identify the energy saving opportunities 
5. To analyze the data collected during performance evaluation and  recommend energy 
saving measures 
 
Sr. No Detailed Contents Hrs 
01 
Energy Scenario:  
Present Energy Scenario, Energy Pricing, Energy Sector Reforms, Energy 
Security, Energy Conservation and its Importance, Energy Conservation Act -
2001 and its Features. Basics of Energy and its various forms, Material and 
Energy balance  
04 
02 
Energy Audit Principles:  
Definition, Energy audit - need, Types of energy audit, Energy management 
(audit) approach -understanding energy costs, Bench marking, Energy 
performance, Matching energy use to requirement, Maximizing system 
efficiencies, Optimizin g the input energy requirements, Fuel and energy 
substitution. Elements of monitoring& targeting; Energy audit Instruments; Data 
and information-analysis.  
Financial analysis techniques: Simple payback period, NPV, Return on 
investment (ROI), Internal rate of return (IRR) 
08 
03 
Energy Management and Energy Conservation in Electrical System:  
Electricity billing, Electrical load management and maximum demand Control; 
Power factor improvement, Energy efficient equipments and appliances, star 
ratings.   
Energy efficiency measures in lighting system, Lighting control:  Occupancy 
sensors, daylight integration, and use of intelligent controllers.  
Energy conservation opportunities in: water pumps, industrial drives, induction 
motors, motor retrofitting, soft starters, variable speed drives. 
10 
04 
Energy Management and Energy Conservation in Thermal Systems:  
Review of different thermal loads; Energy conservation opportunities in: Steam 
distribution system, Assessment of steam distribution losses, Steam leakages, 
Steam trapping, Condensate and flash steam recovery system.  
General fuel economy measures in Boile rs and furnaces, Waste heat recovery, 
10 
 
use of insulation - types and application. HVAC system: Coefficient of 
performance, Capacity, factors affecting Refrigeration and Air Conditioning 
system performance and savings opportunities.  
05 
Energy Performance Assessment:  
On site Performance evaluation techniques, Case studies based on: Motors and 
variable speed drive, pumps, HVAC system calculations; Lighting System: 
Installed Load Efficacy Ratio (ILER) method, Financial Analysis.   
04 
06 
Energy conservation in Buildings: 
Energy Conservation Building Codes (ECBC): Green Building, LEED rating, 
Application of Non-Conventional and Renewable Energy Sources 
03 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment for 20 marks: 
Consisting Two Compulsory Class Tests 
First test based on approximately 40% of contents and second test based on remaining contents 
(approximately 40% but excluding contents covered in Test I) 
 
End Semester Examination:   
Weightage of each module in end semester examination will be proportion al to number of 
respective lecture hours mentioned in the curriculum. 
1. Question paper will comprise of total six questions, each carrying 20 marks 
2. Question 1 will be compulsory and should cover maximum contents of the curriculum 
3. Remaining questions will be mixed in nature (for example if Q.2 has part (a) from 
module 3 then  part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4. Only Four questions need to be solved. 
 
 
REFERENCES: 
1. Handbook of Electrical Installation Practice, Geofry Stokes, Blackwell Science 
2. Designing with light: Lighting Handbook, By Anil Valia, Lighting System  
3. Energy Management Handbook, By W.C. Turner, John Wiley and Sons 
4. Handbook on Energy Audits and Management, edited by A. K. Tyagi, Tata Energy 
Research Institute (TERI).  
5. Energy Management Principles, C.B.Smith, Pergamon Press  
6. Energy Conservation Guidebook, Dale R. Patrick, S. Fardo, Ray E.  Richardson, 
Fairmont Press  
7. Handbook of Energy Audits, Albert Thumann, W. J. Younger, T.  Niehus, CRC Press  
8. www.energymanagertraining.com  
9. www.bee-india.nic.in 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course Code Course Name Credits 
ILO7019 Development Engineering 03 
 
Objectives: 
1. To understand the characteristics of rural Society and the Scope, Nature and Constraints 
of rural 
Development. 
2. To study Implications of 73rd CAA on Planning, Development and Governance of Rural 
Areas 
3. An exploration of human values, which go into making a ‘good’ human being, a ‘good’ 
professional, a ‘good’ society and a ‘good life’ in the context of work life and the 
personal life of modern Indian professionals 
4. To understand the Nature and Type of Human Values relevant to Planning Institutions 
 
Outcomes: Learner will be able to… 
1. Apply knowledge for Rural Development. 
2. Apply knowledge for Management Issues. 
3. Apply knowledge for Initiatives and Strategies 
4. Develop acumen for higher education and research. 
5. Master the art of working in group of different nature. 
6. Develop confidence to take up rural project activities independently 
 
Sr. 
No.  
Module Contents Hrs 
01 Introduction to Rural Development Meaning, nature and scope of 
development; Nature of rural society in India; Hierarchy of settlements; 
Social, economic and ecological constraints for rural development Roots 
of Rural Development in India Rural reconstructi on and Sarvodaya 
programme before independence; Impact of voluntary effort and 
Sarvodaya Movement on rural development; 
Constitutional direction, directive principles; Panchayati Raj - beginning 
of planning and community development; National extension services. 
08 
02 Post-Independence rural Development Balwant Rai Mehta Committee - 
three tier system of rural local Government; Need and scope for people’s 
participation and Panchayati Raj; Ashok Mehta Committee - linkage 
between Panchayati Raj, participation and rural development 
04 
03 Rural Development Initiatives in Five Year Plans Five Year Plans and 
Rural Development; Planning process at National, State, Regional and 
District levels; Planning, development, implementing and monitoring 
organizations and agencies; Urban and rural interface - integrated 
approach and local plans; Development initiatives and their 
convergence; Special component plan and sub -plan for the weaker 
section; Micro -eco zones; Data base for local planning; Need for 
decentralized planning; Sustainable rural development. 
06 
04 Post 73rd Amendment Scenario 73rd Constitution Amendment Act, 
including - XI schedule, devolution of powers, functions and finance; 
Panchayati Raj institutions - organizational linkages; Recent changes in 
rural local planning; Gram Sabha - revitalized Panchayati Raj; 
Institutionalization; resource mapping, resource mobilization including 
04 
 
social mobilization; Information Technology and rural planning; Need 
for further amendments. 
05 Values and Science and Technology Material development and its 
values; the challenge of science and technology; Values in planning 
profession, research and education. 
Types of Values Psychological values — integrated personality; mental 
health; Societal values — the modern search for a good society; justice, 
democracy, rule of law, values in the Indian constitution; 
Aesthetic values — perception and enjoyment of beauty; Moral and 
ethical values; nature of moral judgment; Spiritual values; different 
concepts; secular spirituality; Relative and absolute values; 
Human values— humanism and human values; human rights; human 
values as freedom, creativity, love and wisdom. 
10 
06 Ethics Canons of ethics; ethics of virtue; ethics of duty; ethics of 
responsibility; Work ethics; 
Professional ethics; Ethics in planning profession, research and 
education 
04 
 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment for 20 marks: 
Consisting Two Compulsory Class Tests 
First test based on approximately 40% of contents and second test based on remaining contents 
(approximately 
40% but excluding contents covered in Test I) 
 
End Semester Examination: 
Weightage of each module in end semester examination will be proportional to number of 
respective lecture hours mentioned in the curriculum. 
1. Question paper will comprise of total six questions, each carrying 20 marks 
2. Question 1 will be compulsory and should cover maximum contents of the curriculum 
3. Remaining questions will be mixed in nature (for example if Q.2 has part (a) from 
module 3 then part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4. Only Four questions need to be solved 
 
 
References: 
1. ITPI, Village Planning and Rural Development, ITPI, New Delhi 
2. Thooyavan, K.R. Human Settlements: A 2005 MA Publication, Chennai 
3. GoI, Constitution (73rd GoI, New Delhi Amendment) Act, GoI, New Delhi 
4. Planning Commission, Five Year Plans, Planning Commission 
5. Planning Commission, Manual of Integrated District Planning, 2006, Planning 
Commission 
New Delhi 
6. Planning Guide to Beginners 
7. Weaver, R.C., The Urban Complex, Doubleday. 
8. Farmer, W.P. et al, Ethics in Planning, American Planning Association, Washington. 
9. How, E., Normative Ethics in Planning, Journal of Planning Literature, Vol.5, No.2, pp. 
123-150. 
10. Watson, V. , Conflicting Rationalities: -- Implications for Planning Theory and Ethics, 
Planning Theory andPractice, Vol. 4, No.4, pp.395 – 407 
 
 
 
 
Lab Code Lab Name Credit 
CSL70011 Machine Learning Lab 1 
 
Prerequisite: Data Structures, Analysis of Algorithms 
Lab Objectives:  
1 To introduce the basic concepts and techniques of Machine Learning.  
2 To acquire in depth understanding of various supervised and unsupervised algorithms 
3 To be able to apply various ensemble techniques for combining ML models. 
4 To demonstrate dimensionality reduction techniques. 
 
Lab Outcomes: At the end of the course, the students will be able to 
1 To implement an appropriate machine learning model for the given application. 
2 To implement ensemble techniques to combine predictions from different models.  
3 To implement the dimensionality reduction techniques. 
 
Suggested List of Experiments 
Sr. No.     Title of Experiment  
1 To implement Linear Regression.   
2 To implement Logistic Regression. 
3 To implement Ensemble learning (bagging/boosting) 
4 To implement multivariate Linear Regression.   
5 To implement SVM 
6 To implement PCA/SVD/LDA 
7 To implement Graph Based Clustering 
8 To implement DB Scan  
9 To implement CART 
10 To implement LDA 
  
 
Term Work: 
1 Term work should consist of 6 experiments. 
2 Journal must include one mini project/case study on any machine learning application. 
3 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures the satisfactory performance of 
laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. 
4 Total 25 Marks (Experiments & Assignments: 1 5-marks, Attendance: 05 -marks, mini project: 
05-marks) 
 
Oral & Practical exam. 
Based on the entire syllabus CSC7011 Machine Learning  and CSL7011: Machine Learning Lab 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lab Code Lab Name Credit 
CSL7012                               Big Data Analytics Lab 1 
 
 
Prerequisite: C Programming Language. 
Lab Objectives: Students will be able to 
1 Solve Big Data problems using Map Reduce Technique and apply to various algorithms. 
2  Identify various types of NoSQL databases and execute NOSQL commands 
3 Understand implementation of various analytic techniques using Hive/PIG/R/Tableau, etc. 
4 Apply streaming analytics to real time applications. 
 
Lab Outcomes:  
1 To interpret business models and scientific computing paradigms, and apply software tools for 
big data analytics. 
2 To implement algorithms that uses Map Reduce to apply on structured and unstructured data 
3 To perform hands-on NoSql databases such as Cassandra, HadoopHbase, MongoDB, etc. 
4 To implement various data streams algorithms. 
5 To develop and analyze the social network graphs with data visualization techniques. 
 
 
Suggested List of Experiments 
(Select a case study and perform the experiments 1 to 8.). 
Star (*) marked experiments are compulsory. 
Sr. No. Name of the Experiment 
1* Hadoop HDFS Practical: 
-HDFS Basics, Hadoop Ecosystem Tools Overview. 
-Installing Hadoop. 
-Copying File to Hadoop. 
-Copy from Hadoop File system and deleting file. 
-Moving and displaying files in HDFS. 
 -Programming exercises on Hadoop 
2 Use of Sqoop tool to transfer data between Hadoop and relational database servers. 
a. Sqoop - Installation. 
b. To execute basic commands of Hadoop eco system componentSqoop. 
3* To install and configure MongoDB/ Cassandra/ HBase/ Hypertable to execute NoSQL 
commands 
4 Experiment on Hadoop Map-Reduce: 
 -Write a program to implement a word count program using MapReduce. 
5 Experiment on Hadoop Map-Reduce: 
-Implementing simple algorithms in Map-Reduce: Matrix multiplication, Aggregates, 
Joins, Sorting, Searching, etc 
6 Create HIVE Database and Descriptive analytics-basic statistics. 
7* Data Stream Algorithms (any one): 
- Implementing DGIM algorithm using any Programming Language 
- Implement Bloom Filter using any programming language 
Implement Flajolet Martin algorithm using any programming language 
8 Social Network Analysis using R (for example: Community Detection Algorithm) 
9 Data Visualization using Hive/PIG/R/Tableau/. 
10 Exploratory Data Analysis using Spark/ Pyspark. 
 
11* Mini Project: One real life large data application to be implemented (Use standard 
Datasets available on the web). 
- Streaming data analysis – use flume for data capture, HIVE/PYSpark for analysis of 
twitter data, chat data, weblog analysis etc. 
- Recommendation System (for example: Health Care System, Stock Market 
Prediction, Movie Recommendation, etc.) 
SpatioTemporal DataAnalytics 
 
 
Useful Links: 
1 https://www.coursera.org/learn/hadoop#syllabus 
2 https://www.coursera.org/learn/introduction-mongodb#syllabus 
3 https://www.coursera.org/learn/data-visualization-tableau?specialization=data-visualization#syllabus 
4 https://www.coursera.org/learn/introduction-to-big-data-with-spark-hadoop#syllabus 
 
Term Work: 
1 Term work should consist of 8 experiments. 
2 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures satisfactory  performance of 
laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. 
3 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures satisfactory  performance of 
laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. Total 25 Marks (Experiments: 
15-marks, Attendance Theory & Practical: 05-marks, Assignment: 05-marks) 
Oral & Practical exam 
  Based on the entire syllabus of and CSC702 : Big Data Analytics and CSL702 Big Data 
Analytics Lab 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lab Code Lab Name Credit 
CSDL7011 Machine Vision Lab 1 
 
 
Prerequisite: Computer Graphics, Image Processing, Python 
Lab Objectives: 
1 To perform basic image processing operations 
2 To explore different preprocessing technique 
3 To develop application related to Machine vision 
4 To detect and recognize objects 
Lab Outcomes: 
1 Students will be able to read image and video file, perform different processing 
2 Students will be able to do edge detection ,depth estimation 
3 Students will be able to choose appropriate algo for segmentation 
4 Students will be able to implement object detection technique 
 
 
Suggested Experiments: Students are required to complete at least 8 experiments. 
Sr.No. Name of the Experiment 
1 Handling Files, Cameras, and GUIs 
Basic I/O scripts ,Reading/writing an image file ,Converting between an image and raw 
bytes ,Accessing image data with numpy.array ,Reading/writing a video file ,Capturing 
camera frames, 
Displaying images in a window, Displaying camera frames in a window 
2 Processing Images with OpenCV 3  
Converting between different color spaces,  
The Fourier Transform, High pass filter,  Low pass filter, 
3 Edge detection with Canny, 
Contour detection, 
Contours – bounding box, minimum area rectangle, and minimum enclosing circle 
,Contours – convex contours and the Douglas-Peucker algorithm  
,Line and circle detection 
4 Depth Estimation 
Capturing frames from a depth camera  
Creating a mask from a disparity map  
Masking a copy operation  
Depth estimation with a normal camera  
 
5 Object segmentation using the Watershed and GrabCut algorithms  
Example of foreground detection with GrabCut 
Image segmentation with the Watershed algorithm 
6 Detecting and Recognizing Faces 
Conceptualizing Haar cascades  
Getting Haar cascade data  
Using OpenCV to perform face detection  
Performing face detection on a still image  
7 Performing face detection on video 
Performing face recognition  
Generating the data for face recognition  
Recognizing faces  
Preparing the training data  
Loading the data and recognizing faces  
 
Performing an Eigenfaces recognition 
8 Retrieving Images and Searching 
Using Image Descriptors , 
Feature detection algorithms, 
Defining features  
Detecting features – corners  
Feature extraction and description using DoG and SIFT  
Anatomy of a keypoint 
 
9 Detecting and Recognizing Objects  
Object detection and recognition techniques  
HOG descriptors  
The scale issue  
The location issue  
Non-maximum (or non-maxima) suppression  
Support vector machines  
People detection  
 
10 Creating and training an object detector 
Bag-of-words  
BOW in computer vision  
Detecting cars  in a scene 
 
Reference &Useful Links: 
1 Learning OpenCV 3 Computer Vision with Python Second Edition, by Joe Minichino Joseph 
Howse Published by Packt Publishing Ltd. 
2 http://iitk.ac.in/ee/computer-vision-lab 
3 https://nptel.ac.in/courses/108103174 
4 https://docs.opencv.org/3.4/d9/df8/tutorial_root.html 
 
Term Work: 
1 Term work should consist of 8 experiments. 
2 Journal must include at least 2 assignments. 
3 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures that satisfactory performance of 
laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. 
4 Total 25 Marks (Experiments: 15-marks, Attendance Theory & Practical: 05-marks, 
Assignments: 05-marks) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lab Code Lab Name Credit 
CSDL7012 Quantum Computing  Lab 1 
 
Prerequisite: Python Programming Language. 
Lab Objectives: 
1 To implement fundamental quantum computing concepts 
2 To learn quantum computation and quantum information   
3 To understand quantum entanglement, quantum algorithms 
4 To understand quantum information theory and  channels 
Lab Outcomes: Students will be able to 
1 Implement basic quantum computing logic by building dice and random numbers using open 
source simulation tools. 
2 Understand quantum logic gates using open source simulation tools. 
3  Implement quantum circuits using open source simulation tools. 
4 I implement quantum algorithms using open source simulation tools. 
 
Suggested Experiments: Students are required to complete at least 10 experiments.Faculty may 
develop their own set of experiments for students. List below is only suggestive. 
Sr. No. Name of the Experiment 
1 Building Quantum dice  
2 Building Quantum Random No. Generation 
3 Composing simple quantum circuits with q-gates and measuring the output into 
classical bits. 
4 Implementation of Shor’s Algorithms 
5 Implementation of Grover’s Algorithm  
6 Implementation of Deutsch’s Algorithm 
7 Implementation of Deutsch-Jozsa’s Algorithm  
8 Quantum Circuits  
9 Qubit Gates 
10 Bell Circuit & GHZ Circuit  
11 Accuracy of Quantum Phase Estimation  
12 Mini Project such as implementing an API for efficient search using Grover’s 
Algorithms or Integer factorization using Shor’s Algorithm. 
 
Useful Links: 
1 IBM Experience:  https://quantum-computing.ibm.com/ 
2 Microsoft Quantum Development Kit  
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/resources/development-kit/quantum-computing/#overview 
3 Forest SDK PyQuil: https://pyquil-docs.rigetti.com/en/stable/ 
4 Google Quantum CIRQ https://quantumai.google/cirq 
5 Qiskit Labs IBM https://learn.qiskit.org/course/ch-labs/lab-1-quantum-circuits 
 
Term Work: 
1 Term work should consist of 10 experiments. 
2 Journal must include at least 2 assignments. 
3 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures that satisfactory performance of 
laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. 
4 Total 25 Marks (Experiments: 15-marks, Attendance Theory & Practical: 05-marks, 
Assignments: 05-marks) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lab Code Lab Name Credit 
CSDL7013         Natural Language processing Lab 1 
 
 
Prerequisite: Java/Python 
Lab Objectives: The course aims 
1 To understand the key concepts of NLP. 
2 To learn various phases of NLP. 
3 To design and implement various language models and POS tagging techniques. 
4 To understand various NLP Algorithms 
5 To learn NLP applications such as Information Extraction,  Sentiment Analysis, Question 
answering, Machine translation etc.  
6 To design and implement applications based on natural language processing 
 
Lab Outcomes:Learners will be able 
1 Apply various text processing techniques. 
2 Design language model for word level analysis. 
3 Model linguistic phenomena with formal grammar. 
4 Design, implement and analyze NLP algorithms. 
5 To apply NLP techniques to design real world NLP applications such as machine translation, 
sentiment analysis, text summarization, information extraction, Question Answering system 
etc.  
6 Implement proper experimental methodology for training and evaluating empirical NLP 
systems. 
 
 
Suggested List of Experiments 
(Select a case study and perform the experiments 1 to 8.). 
Star (*) marked experiments are compulsory. 
Sr. No. Name of the Experiment 
1 Study various applications of NLP and  Formulate the Problem Statement for Mini 
Project based on chosen real world NLP applications:  
[Machine Translation, Text Categorization, Text summarization, chat Bot, Plagarism, 
Spelling & Grammar checkers, Sentiment / opinion analysis, Question answerin g, 
Personal Assistant, Tutoring Systems, etc.] 
2 Apply various text preprocessing techniques for any given text : Tokenization and 
Filtration & Script Validation. 
3 Apply various other text preprocessing techniques for any given text : Stop Word 
Removal, Lemmatization / Stemming. 
4 Perform morphological analysis and word generation for any given text.  
5 Implement N-Gram model for the given text input. 
6 Study the different POS taggers and Perform POS tagging on the given text. 
7 Perform Chunking for the given text input. 
8 Implement Named Entity Recognizer for the given text input. 
9 Implement Text Similarity Recognizer for the chosen text documents.  
 
10 Exploratory data analysis of a given text (Word Cloud) 
11 Mini Project Report: For any one chosen real world NLP application. 
13 Implementation and Presentation of Mini Project 
 
 
Term Work: 
1 Study various applications of NLP and Formulate the Problem Statement for Mini Project 
based on chosen real world NLP applications:  
[Machine Translation, Text Categorization, Text summarization, chat Bot, Plagarism, Spelling 
& Grammar checkers, Sentiment / opinion analysis, Question answering, Personal Assistant, 
Tutoring Systems, etc.] 
2 Apply various text preprocessing techniques for any given text: Tokenization and Filtration & 
Script Validation. 
3 Apply various other text preprocessing techniques for any given text: Stop Word Removal, 
Lemmatization / Stemming. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lab Code Lab Name Credit 
CSDL7021  Augmented and Virtual Reality Lab 1 
 
 
Prerequisite: Computer Graphics, Image Processing, Python 
Lab Objectives: 
1 To perform installation of Unity  
2 To explore working of VR Gadget 
3 To develop scene VR application  
4 To track objects in virtual environment 
Lab Outcomes: Learners will be able to 
1 Setup  VR development environment 
2 Use HTC Vive/ Google Cardboard/ Google Daydream and Samsung gear VR. 
3 Develop VR scene and place object 
4 Work with Augmented Faces features. 
 
Suggested Experiments: Students are required to complete at least 6 experiments. 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Name of the Experiment 
1 Installation of Unity and Visual Studio, setting up Unity for VR development, 
understanding documentation of the same. 
2 Demonstration of the working of HTC Vive, Google Cardboard, Google Daydream 
and Samsung gear VR. 
3 Develop a scene in Unity that includes: 
i. a cube, plane and sphere, apply transformations on the 3 game objects. 
ii. add a video and audio source 
4 Develop a scene in Unity that includes a cube, plane and sphere. Create a new 
material and texture separately for three Game objects. Change the colour, material 
and texture of each Game object separately in the scene. Write a C# program in 
visual studio to change the colour and material/texture of the game objects 
dynamically on button click. 
5 Develop a scene in Unity that includes a sphere and plane . Apply Rigid body 
component, material and Box collider to the game Objects. Write a C# program to 
grab and throw the sphere using vr controller. 
6 Develop a simple UI(User interface ) menu with images, canvas, sprites and button. 
Write a C# program to interact with UI menu through VR trigger button such that on 
each successful trigger interaction display a score on scene . 
7 Place a three-dimensional ARCore pawn on detected AR plane surfaces 
8 Using the Augmented Faces feature in your own apps. 
 
Term Work: 
1 Term work should consist of 6 experiments. 
2 Journal must include at least 2 assignments. 
3 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures that satisfactory 
performance of laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. 
4 Total 25 Marks (Experiments: 15-marks, Attendance Theory & Practical: 05-marks, 
Assignments: 05-marks) 
 
 
 
 
Lab Code Lab Name Credit 
CSDL7022 Blockchain Lab 1 
 
Prerequisite: Cryptography and Network Security 
Lab Objectives:  
1 To explore Blockchain concepts. 
2 To implement public and private Blockchain. 
3 To create applications using Blockchain. 
Lab Outcomes: At the end of the course, the students will be able to 
1 Creating Cryptographic hash using merkle tree. 
2 Design Smart Contract using Solidity. 
3 Implementing ethereum blockchain using Geth. 
4 Demonstrate the concept of blockchain in real world application. 
 
Suggested List of Experiments 
Sr. No.     Title of Experiment  
1 Cryptography in Blockchain, Merkle root tree hash 
2 Creating Smart Contract using Solidity and Remix IDE. 
3 Creating Transactions using Solidity and Remix IDE 
4 Embedding wallet and transaction using Solidity 
5 Blockchain platform ethereum using Geth. 
6 Blockchain platform Ganache. 
7 Case Study on Hyperledger 
8 Case Study on Other Blockchain platforms. 
9 Creating a blockchain Application  
 
Term Work: 
1 Term work should consist of 8 experiments and one mini project. 
2 Journal must include at least 2 assignments on content of theory and practical of 
“Blockchain Lab” 
3 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures satisfactory performance of 
laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. 
4 Total 25 Marks (Experiments: 1 5-marks, Attendance Theory &  Practical: 05 -marks, 
Assignments: 05-marks) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lab Code Lab Name Credit 
CSDL7023 Information Retrieval  Lab 1 
 
Prerequisite: Java, Python 
Lab Objectives: 
1 To understand the formation of queries. 
2 To implement the various modeling techniques for IR. 
3 To execute query expansion techniques. 
4 To evaluate Information retrieval systems. 
Lab Outcomes: Students will be able :- 
1   To frame queries for information retrieval 
2  To implement modeling techniques 
3  To perform query expansion techniques 
4  To demonstrate evaluation techniques for IR 
 
Suggested Experiments: Students are required to perform any 5 experiments from the 
suggested list along with a case study (* indicates compulsory experiment) 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Name of the Experiment 
1 To understand the query structure and execute various structured queries  
2 To implement any IR modeling technique 
3 To implement Pattern matching method used for IR 
4 To execute query expansion technique (Local/Global) 
5 To design inverted indices for any information retrieval model 
6  To implement tf-id weighting  
7  To evaluate the system/application under study 
8*  To understand the Case Study and generate a report for the same 
 
 
Term Work: 
1 Term work should consist of 5 experiments and 1 case study 
2 Journal must include at least 2 assignments. 
3 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures satisfactory performance of 
laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. 
4 Total: 25 Marks (Experiments: 10-marks, Case study - 5 marks Attendance Theory 
& Practical: 05-marks, Assignments: 05-marks) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course Code Course Name Credit 
CSP701 Major Project 1 03 
 
 
Course Objectives:  
The p roject work facilitates the students to develop and prove Technical, Professional and 
Ethical skills and knowledge gained during graduation program by applying them from problem 
identification, analyzing the problem and designing solutions. 
Course Outcomes:  Learner will able  
1 To develop the understanding of the problem domain through extensive review of 
literature. 
2 To Identify and analyze the problem in detail to define its scope with problem specific 
data. 
3 To know various techniques to be implemented for the selected problem and related 
technical skills through feasibility analysis. 
4 To design solutions for real-time problems that will positively impact society and 
environment.. 
5 To develop clarity of presentation based on communication, teamwork and leadership 
skills. 
6 To inculcate professional and ethical behavior. 
 
 
Guidelines:  
 
1. Project Topic Selection and Allocation:  
 Project topic selection Process to be defined and followed: 
o Project orientation can be given at the end of sixth semester. 
o Students should be informed about the domain and domain experts whose 
guidance can be taken before selecting projects.  
o Student’s should be recommended to refer papers from reputed co nferences/ 
journals like IEEE, Elsevier, ACM etc. which are not more than 3 years old for 
review of literature. 
o Students can certainly take ideas from anywhere, but be sure that they should 
evolve them in the unique way to suit their project requirements. Students can be 
informed to refer Digital India portal, SIH portal or any other hackathon portal for 
problem selection. 
 Topics can be finalized with respect to following criterion: 
o Topic Selection: The topics selected should be novel in nature (Product based, 
Application based or Research based) or should work towards removing the 
lacuna in currently existing systems.  
o Technology Used: Use of latest technology or modern tools can be encouraged. 
o Students should not repeat work done previously (work done in the last three 
years). 
 
 
 
o Project work must be carried out by the group of at least 2 students and maximum 
4.  
o The project work can be undertaken in a research institute or 
organization/Industry/any business establishment. (out-house projects) 
o The project proposal presentations can be scheduled according to the domains 
and should be judged by faculty who are expert in the domain. 
o Head of department and senior staff  along with project coordinators wil l take 
decision regarding final selection of projects.  
o Guide allocation should be done and students  have to submit weekly progress 
report to the internal guide. 
o Internal guide has to keep track of the progress of the project and also has to 
maintain attendance report. This progress report can be used for awarding term 
work marks.  
o In case of industry/ out -house projects, visit by internal guide will be preferred 
and external members can be called during the presentation at various levels 
 
2. Project Report Format:  
At the end of semester, each group needs to prepare a project report as per the guidelines 
issued by the University of Mumbai. 
 
A project report should preferably contain at least following details: 
o Abstract 
o Introduction 
o Literature Survey/ Existing system 
o Limitation Existing system or research gap 
o Problem Statement and Objective 
o Proposed System 
o Analysis/Framework/ Algorithm 
o Design details 
o Methodology (your approach to solve the problem) Proposed System  
o Experimental Set up 
o Details of Database or details about input to systems or selected data 
o Performance Evaluation Parameters (for Validation) 
o Software and Hardware Set up 
o Implementation Plan for Next Semester  
o Timeline Chart for Term1 and Term -II (Project Management tools can be 
used.) 
o References  
 
Desirable 
Students can be asked to undergo some Certification course (for the technical skill set that 
will be useful and applicable for projects.) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Term Work:  
 
Distribution of marks for term work shall be done based on following: 
o Weekly Log Report 
o Project Work Contribution 
o Project Report (Spiral Bound) (both side print) 
o Term End Presentation (Internal)  
The final certification and acceptance of TW ensures the satisfactory performance on the 
above aspects.  
4. Oral and Practical:  
Oral and Practical examination (Final Project Evaluation) of Project 1 should be 
conducted by Internal and External examiners approved by University of Mumbai at the 
end of the semester. 
 
Suggested quality evaluation parameters are as follows: 
o Quality of problem selected 
o Clarity of problem definition and feasibility of problem solution  
o Relevance to the specialization / industrial trends  
o Originality 
o Clarity of objective and scope 
o Quality of analysis and design 
o Quality of written and oral presentation 
o Individual as well as team work 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course Code: Course Title Credit 
CSC801 Distributed Computing 3 
 
Prerequisite: Computer Networks and Operating Systems. 
Course Objectives: 
1 To provide students with contemporary knowledge in distributed systems. 
2 To explore the various methods used for communication in distributed systems. 
3 To provide skills to measure the performance of distributed synchronization algorithms. 
4 To provide knowledge of resource management, and process management including 
process migration. 
5 To learn issues involved in replication, consistency, and file management. 
6 To equip students with skills to analyze and design distributed applications. 
Course Outcomes: At the end of the course students will be able to 
1 Demonstrate the knowledge of basic elements and concepts related to distributed system 
technologies. 
2 Illustrate the middleware technologies that support distributed applications such as RPC, 
RMI and Object-based middleware. 
3 Analyze the various techniques used for clock synchronization, mutual exclusion and 
deadlock. 
4 Demonstrate the concepts of Resource and Process management.  
5 Demonstrate the concepts of Consistency, Replication Management and fault Tolerance. 
6 Apply the knowledge of Distributed File systems in building large-scale distributed 
applications. 
 
Module  Content Hrs 
1 Introduction to Distributed Systems 4 
1.1 Characterization of Distributed Systems: Issues, Goals, Types of distributed 
systems, Grid and Cluster computing Models, Hardware and Software Concepts: 
NOS, DOS. 
 
1.2 Middleware: Models of middleware, Services offered by middleware.  
2 Communication 4 
2.1 Interprocess communication (IPC): Remote Procedure Call (RPC), Remote 
Method Invocation (RMI). 
 
2.2 Message-Oriented Communication, Stream Oriented Communication, Group 
Communication. 
 
3 Synchronization 10 
3.1 Clock Synchronization: Physical clock, Logical Clocks, Election Algorithms  
3.2 Distributed Mutual Exclusion, Requirements of Mutual Exclusion Algorithms and 
Performance measures. 
Non- token Based Algorithms: Lamport, Ricart–Agrawala‘s and Maekawa‘s 
Algorithms; Token-based Algorithms: Suzuki-Kasami‘s Broadcast Algorithms 
and Raymond‘s Tree-based Algorithm; and Comparative Performance Analysis. 
 
 
3.3 Deadlock: Introduction, Deadlock Detection: Centralized approach, Chandy -
Misra_Hass Algorithm. 
 
4 Resource and Process Management 7 
4.1 Desirable Features of Global Scheduling algorithm, Task assignment approach, 
Load balancing approach and load sharing approach.  
 
4.2 Introduction to Process Management, Process Migration, Code Migration.  
5 Replication, Consistency and Fault Tolerance 
5.1 Distributed Shared Memory: Architecture, design issues. 8 
5.2 Introduction to replication and consistency, Data -Centric and Client -Centric 
Consistency Models, Replica Management. 
 
5.3 Fault Tolerance: Introduction, Process resilience, Recovery.  
6 Distributed File Systems  6 
6.1 Introduction and features of DFS, File models, File Accessing models, File-
Caching Schemes, File Replication, Case Study: Network File System (NFS). 
 
6.2 Designing Distributed Systems: Google Case Study.  
 
Textbooks: 
1 Andrew S. Ta nenbaum and Maarten Van Steen, Distributed Systems: Principles and 
Paradigms, 2nd edition, Pearson Education.   
2 Mukesh Singhal, Niranjan G. Shivaratri, "Advanced concepts in operating systems: 
Distributed, Database and multiprocessor operating systems", MC Graw Hill education. 
3  Pradeep K.Sinha, "Distributed Operating System-Concepts and design", PHI. 
 
References: 
1 M. L. Liu, ―Distributed Computing Principles and Applications‖, Pearson Addison 
Wesley, 2004  
2 George Coulouris, Jean Dollimore, Tim Kindberg, "Distributed Systems: Concepts and 
Design", 4th Edition, Pearson Education, 2005. 
 
Useful Links  
1 https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106106107 
2 https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106106168 
3 http://csis.pace.edu/~marchese/CS865/Lectures/Chap7/Chapter7fin.htm 
4 https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106104182 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment: 
Internal Assessment: 
Assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The first -class test is to be conducted 
when approx. 40% syllabus is completed and the second -class test when an additional 40% 
syllabus is completed. The duration of each test shall be one hour. 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 The question paper will comprise a total of six questions. 
2 All question carries equal marks 
3 Questions will be mixed in nature (for example supposed Q.2 has part (a) from module 3 
then part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4 Only four questions need to be solved. 
5 In question paper weightage of each module will be proportional to the number of 
respective lecture hours as mentioned in the syllabus. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course Code: Course Title Credit 
CSDC8011 Deep Learning 3 
 
Prerequisite: Basic mathematics and Statistical concepts, Linear algebra, Machine 
Learning 
Course Objectives: 
1 To learn the fundamentals of Neural Network. 
2 To gain an in-depth understanding of training Deep Neural Networks.  
3 To acquire knowledge of advanced concepts of Convolution Neural Networks, 
Autoencoders and Recurrent Neural Networks. 
4 Students should be familiar with the recent trends in Deep Learning. 
Course Outcomes: 
1 Gain basic knowledge of Neural Networks. 
2 Acquire in depth understanding of training Deep Neural Networks. 
3 Design appropriate DNN model for supervised, unsupervised and sequence learning 
applications. 
4 Gain familiarity with recent trends and applications of Deep Learning. 
 
Modul
e  
 Content 39Hrs 
1  Fundamentals of Neural Network 4 
 1.1 Biological neuron, Mc -Culloch Pitts Neuron, Perceptron, Perceptron 
Learning, Delta learning, Multilayer Perceptron: Linearly separable, 
linearly non-separable classes 
 
 1.2 Deep Networks: Fundamentals, Brief History, Three Classes of Deep 
Learning Basic Terminologies of Deep Learning 
 
2  Training, Optimization and Regularization of Deep Neural 
Network 
10 
 2.1 Training Feedforward DNN 
Multi Layered Feed Forward Neural Network, Learning Factors, 
Activation functions: Tanh, Logistic, Linear, Softmax, ReLU, Leaky 
ReLU, Loss functions: Squared Error loss, Cross Entropy, Choosing 
output function and loss function 
 
 2.2 Optimization 
Learning with backpropagation, Learning Parameters: Gradient 
Descent (GD), Stochastic and Mini Batch GD, Momentum Based GD, 
Nesterov Accelerated GD, AdaGrad, Adam, RMSProp 
 
 2.3 Regularization 
Overview of Overfitting, Types of biases, Bias Variance Tradeoff 
Regularization Methods: L1, L2 regularization, Parameter sharing, 
Dropout, Weight Decay, Batch normalization, Early stopping, Data 
Augmentation, Adding noise to input and output 
 
3  Autoencoders: Unsupervised Learning 6 
 3.1 Introduction, Linear Autoencoder, Undercomplete Autoencoder, 
Overcomplete Autoencoders, Regularization in Autoencoders 
 
 
 3.2 Denoising Autoencoders, Sparse Autoencoders, Contractive 
Autoencoders 
 
 3.3 Application of Autoencoders: Image Compression  
4  Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN): Supervised Learning 7 
 4.1 Convolution operation, Padding, Stride, Relation between input, output 
and filter size, CNN architecture: Convolution layer, Pooling Layer, 
Weight Sharing in CNN, Fully Connected NN vs CNN, Variants of 
basic Convolution function  
 
 4.2 Modern Deep Learning Architectures: 
LeNET: Architecture, AlexNET: Architecture  
 
5  Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN)  8 
 5.1 Sequence Learning Problem, Unfolding Computational graphs, 
Recurrent Neural Network, Bidirectional RNN, Backpropagation 
Through Time (BTT), Vanishing  and Exploding Gradients, Truncated 
BTT 
 
 5.2 Long Short Term Memory: Selective Read, Selective write, Selective 
Forget, Gated Recurrent Unit  
 
6  Recent Trends and Applications 4 
 6.1 Generative Adversarial Network (GAN): Architecture   
 6.2 Applications: Image Generation, DeepFake  
 
Textbooks: 
1 Ian Goodfellow, Yoshua Bengio, Aaron Courville. “Deep Learning”, MIT Press Ltd, 2016 
2 Li Deng and Dong Yu, “Deep Learning Methods and Applications”, Publishers Inc. 
3 Satish Kumar "Neural Networks A Classroom Approach" Tata McGraw-Hill. 
4 JM Zurada “Introduction to Artiﬁcial Neural Systems”, Jaico Publishing House 
5 M. J. Kochenderfer, Tim A. Wheeler. “Algorithms for Optimization”, MIt Press. 
References: 
1 Buduma, N. and Locascio, N., “Fundamentals of deep learning: Designing next-generation 
machine intelligence algorithms" 2017. O'Reilly Media, Inc.". 
2 François Chollet. “Deep learning with Python “(Vol. 361). 2018 New York: Manning. 
3 Douwe Osinga. “Deep Learning Cookbook”, O’REILLY, SPD Publishers, Delhi. 
4 Simon Haykin, Neural Network- A Comprehensive Foundation- Prentice Hall 
International, Inc 
5 S.N.Sivanandam and S.N.Deepa, Principles of soft computing-Wiley India 
 
Assessment: 
Internal Assessment: 
The assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The first class test is to be 
conducted when approx. 40% syllabus is completed and second class test when additional 40% 
syllabus is completed. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 Question paper will comprise a total of six questions. 
2 All questions carry equal marks. 
3 Question 1 and question 6 will have questions from all modules. Remaining 4 questions 
will be based on the remaining 4 modules. 
4 Only four questions need to be solved. 
 
5 In question paper weightage of each module will be proportional to the number of 
respective lecture hours as mentioned in the syllabus. 
 
Useful Links  
1 https://nptel.ac. https://deeplearning.cs.cmu.edu/S21/index.html 
2 http://www.cse.iitm.ac.in/~miteshk/CS6910.html 
3 https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106/106/106106184/ 
4 https://www.deeplearningbook.org/ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course Code: Course Title Credit 
CSDC8012 Digital Forensics 3 
 
Prerequisite: Computer Network, Cryptography and System Security 
Course Objectives: 
1 To discuss the need and process of digital forensics and Incident Response Methodology. 
2 To explore the procedures for identification, preservation, and acquisition of digital 
evidence. 
3 To explore techniques and tools used in digital forensics for Operating system and malware 
investigation . 
4 To explore techniques and tools used for  Mobile forensics and browser, email forensics 
 
Course Outcomes: 
1 Discuss the phases of Digital Forensics and methodology to handle the computer security  
incident. 
2 Describe the process of collection, analysis and recovery of the digital evidence. 
3 Explore various tools to analyze malwares and acquired images of RAM/hard drive. 
4 Acquire adequate perspectives of digital forensic investigation in mobile devices 
5 Analyze the source and content authentication of emails and browsers. 
6 Produce unambiguous investigation reports which offer valid conclusions. 
 
Module   Content Hrs 
1  Introduction to Digital Forensics 6 
 1.1 Digital ForensicsDefination, Digital Forensics Goals, Digital 
Forensics Categories - Computer Forensics, Mobile Forensics, 
Network Forensics, Database Forensics 
 
 1.2 Introduction to Incident - Computer Security Incident, Goals of 
Incident Response, CSIRT, Incident Response Methodology, Phase 
after detection of an incident 
 
2  Digital Evidence, Forensics Duplication and Digital Evidence 
Acquisition 
9 
 2.1 Digital evidence, Types of Digital Evidence, Challenges in acquiring 
Digital evidence, Admissibility of evidence, Challenges in evidence 
handling, Chain of Custody 
 
 2.2 Digital Forensics Examination Process - Seizure, Acquisition, 
Analysis, Reporting. Necessity of forensic duplication, Forensic 
image formats, Forensic duplication techniques,. 
 
 2.3 Acquiring Digital Evidence - Forensic Image File Format, Acquiring 
Volatile Memory (Live Acquisition), Acquiring Nonvolatile Memory 
(Static Acquisition), Hard Drive Imaging Risks and Challenges, 
Network Acquisition 
 
3  Forensics Investigation 4 
 3.1 Analyzing Hard Drive Forensic Images, Analyzing RAM Forensic 
Image, Investigating Routers 
 
 3.2 Malware Analysis - Malware, Viruses, Worms, Essential skills and 
tools for Malware Analysis, List of Malware Analysis Tools and 
 
 
Techniques 
4  Windows and Unix  Forensics Investigation 8 
 4.1 Investigating Windows Systems - File Recovery, Windows Recycle 
Bin Forensics, Data Carving, Windows Registry Analysis, USB 
Device Forensics, File Format Identification, Windows Features 
Forensics Analysis, Windows 10 Forensics, Cortana Forensics 
 
 4.2 Investigating Unix Systems - Reviewing Pertinent Logs, Performing 
Keyword Searches, Reviewing Relevant Files, Identifying 
Unauthorized User Accounts or Groups, Identifying Rogue 
Processes, Checking for Unauthorized Access Points, Analyzing 
Trust Relationships 
 
5   Mobile Forensics  8 
 5.1 Android Forensics, Mobile Device Forensic Investigation - Storage 
location, Acquisition methods, Data Analysis 
 
 5.2 GPS forensics - GPS Evidentiary data, GPS Exchange Format 
(GPX), GPX Files, Extraction of Waypoints and TrackPoints, 
Display the Tracks on a Map. 
 
 5.3 SIM Cards Forensics - The Subscriber Identification Module (SIM),  
SIM Architecture,  Security, Evidence Extraction. 
 
 
6  Browser, Email Forensic & Forensic Investigation Reporting 4 
 6.1 Web Browser Forensics, Google chrome, Other web browser 
investigation  
Email forensics - Sender Policy Framework (SPF), Domain Key 
Identified Mail (DKIM), Domain based Message Authentication 
Reporting and Confirmation (DMARC) 
 
 6.2 Investigative Report Te mplate, Layout of an Investigative Report, 
Guidelines for Writing a Report  
 
 
Textbooks: 
1 Kevin Mandia, Chris Prosise, “Incident Response and computer forensics”, Tata 
McGrawHill, 2006 
2 Digital Forensics Basics A Practical Guide Using Windows OS — Nihad A. Hassan, 
APress Publication, 2019 
3 Xiaodong Lin , “Introductory Computer Forensics: A Hands -on Practical Approach”, 
Springer Nature, 2018 
 
Suggested MOOC Course Links  
1 Course on “Ethical Hacking” 
https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106/105/106105217/ 
2 Course on “Digital Forensics” 
https://onlinecourses.swayam2.ac.in/cec20_lb06/preview 
3 Course on Cyber Incident Response 
https://www.coursera.org/learn/incident-response 
4 Course on “Penetration Testing, Incident Responses and Forensics” 
https://www.coursera.org/learn/ibm-penetration-testing-incident-response-forensics 
 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment: 
Assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The first class test is to be conducted 
when approx. 40% syllabus is completed and second class test when additional 40% syllabus is 
completed. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 Question paper will comprise a total of six questions. 
2 All question carries equal marks 
3 Questions will be mixed in nature (for example supposed Q.2 has part (a) from module 3 
then part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4 Only Four questions need to be solved. 
5 In question paper weightage of each module will be proportional to the number of 
respective lecture hours as mention in the syllabus. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course Code Course Name Credit 
CSDC8013               Applied Data Science 03 
 
Prerequisite:  Machine Learning, Data Structures & Algorithms 
Course Objectives: 
1 To introduce students to the basic concepts of data science.  
2 To acquire an in-depth understanding of data exploration and data visualization.  
3 To be familiar with various anomaly detection techniques. 
4 To understand the data science techniques for different applications. 
Course Outcomes: 
1 To gain fundamental knowledge of the data science process. 
2 To apply data exploration and visualization techniques. 
3 To apply anomaly detection techniques.  
4 To gain an in-depth understanding of time-series forecasting. 
5 Apply different methodologies and evaluation strategies. 
6   To apply data science techniques to real world applications. 
 
 
Module  Detailed Content Hours 
1   Introduction to Data Science 2 
 1.1  Introduction to Data Science, Data Science Process  
 1.2 
 Motivation to use Data Science Techniques: Volume, Dimensions and     
Complexity, Data Science Tasks and Examples  
 1.3 
 Overview of Data Preparation, Modeling, Difference between data 
science  and data analytics   
2  Data Exploration 8 
 2.1 
Types of data, Properties of data 
Descriptive Statistics:  
Univariate Exploration: Measure of Central Tendency, Measure of 
Spread, Symmetry, Skewness: Karl Pearson Coefficient of skewness, 
Bowley’s Coefficient, Kurtosis 
Multivariate Exploration: Central Data Point, Correlation, Different 
forms of correlation,  Karl Pearson Correlation Coefficient for bivariate 
distribution 
 
 
 2.2 
Inferential Statistics:   
Overview of Various forms of distributions: Normal, Poisson, Test 
Hypothesis, Central limit theorem, Confidence Interval, Z-test, t-test, 
Type-I, Type-II Errors, ANOVA 
 
3  Methodology and Data Visualization  06 
 3.1 Methodology:  Overview of model building, Cross Validation, K-
fold cross validation, leave-1 out, Bootstrapping 
 
 3.2 
Data Visualization 
Univariate Visualization: Histogram, Quartile, Distribution Chart 
Multivariate Visualization: Scatter Plot, Scatter Matrix, Bubble chart, 
Density Chart 
Roadmap for Data Exploration 
 
 3.3 
Self-Learning Topics: Visualizing high dimensional data: Parallel 
chart, Deviation chart, Andrews Curves.   
4  Anomaly Detection 06 
 4.1 
Outliers, Causes of Outliers, Anomaly detection techniques, Outlier 
Detection using Statistics   
 4.2 
Outlier Detection using Distance based method, Outlier detection using 
density-based methods,  SMOTE   
5  Time Series Forecasting  4 
 5.1 Taxonomy of Time Series Forecasting methods, Time Series 
Decomposition  
 5.2 
Smoothening Methods: Average method, Moving Average smoothing, 
Time series analysis using linear regression, ARIMA Model, 
Performance Evaluation: Mean Absolute Error, Root Mean Square 
Error, Mean Absolute Percentage Error, Mean Absolute Scaled Error 
 
 5.3 Self-Learning Topics: Evaluation parameters for Classification, 
regression and clustering.  
6  Applications of Data Science 4 
  
Predictive Modeling: House price prediction, Fraud Detection 
Clustering: Customer Segmentation 
Time series forecasting: Weather Forecasting 
Recommendation engines: Product recommendation 
 
 
Textbooks: 
1 Vijay Kotu, Bala Deshpande. “Data Science Concepts and Practice”, Elsevier, M.K. 
Publishers. 
2 Steven Skiena, “Data Science Design Manual”, Springer International Publishing AG 
3 Samir Madhavan. “Mastering Python for Data Science”, PACKT Publishing 
4 Dr. P. N. Arora, Sumeet Arora, S. Arora, Ameet Arora, “Comprehensive Statistical 
Methods”,  S.Chand Publications, New Delhi. 
 
 
References: 
1 Jake VanderPlas. “Python Data Science Handbook”, O’reilly Publications. 
2 Francesco Ricci, LiorRokach, BrachaShapira, Paul B. Kantor, “Recommender Systems 
Handbook”, Springer.  
3 S.C. Gupta, V. K. Kapoor “Fundamentals of Mathematical Statistics”, S. Chand and  
Sons, New Delhi.  
4 B. L. Agrawal.  “Basic Statistics”, New Age Publications, Delhi. 
 
Useful Links 
1 https://onlinecourses.nptel.ac.in/noc22_cs32/preview 
2 https://onlinecourses.nptel.ac.in/noc21_cs69/preview 
 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment: 
 Assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The first -class test is to be conducted   
when approx. 40% syllabus is completed and second class test when additional40% syllabus is 
completed. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
 
 End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 Question paper will comprise a total of six questions. 
2 All questions carry equal marks. 
3 Questions will be mixed in nature (for example supposed Q.2 has part (a) from module 3 
then part (b) will be from any module other than module 3).  
4 Only Four questions need to be solved. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course Code: Course Title Credit 
CSDC8021 Optimization in Machine Learning 3 
 
Prerequisite:  Engineering Mathematics, Algorithms and data structures 
Course Objectives: 
1. Understand, analyze and apply existing derivative based  optimization algorithms 
2. Analyze and apply stochastic methods in optimization 
3. Analyze convex optimization  for machine learning problems 
4. Understand real life problems and apply evolutionary methods to optimize them 
 
Course Outcomes: 
1. To understand foundational optimization ideas including gradient descent, stochastic gradient 
methods  
2. To apply convex optimization algorithm 
3. To analyze and demonstrate several population methods in Evolutionary Computation 
4.Toapply advanced evolutionary algorithms such as particle swarm and ant colony 
optimization 
 
 
Module  Content Hrs 
1  Introduction and Background to Optimization Theory  4 
 
1.1 
 
 
 
Basic Ingredients of Optimization Problems, Optimization 
Problem Classifications, Optima Types, Optimization Method 
Classes, Overview of  Unconstrained and  Constrained 
Optimization, Basics of convex optimization 
 
2  Derivative based Optimization  10 
 
2.1  
 
2.2 
 
 
2.3  
The Basics of Optimization (univariate, bivariate and 
multivariate optimization), Convex Objective Functions 
First-Order optimization Methods : Gradient Descent, 
Conjugate Gradient, Momentum, Nesterov Momentum, 
Adagrad, RMSProp, learning rate optimization 
Second order  optimization: Newton method 
 
3  Stochastic Methods 6 
  
Noisy Descent, Mesh Adaptive Direct Search, Cross-Entropy 
Method, Natural Evolution Strategies, Covariance Matrix 
Adaptation  
 
4  Convex Optimization  6 
  Optimization problems, Convex optimization, Linear 
optimization problems, Quadratic optimization problems,  
 
Geometric programming, Overview of Generalized inequality 
constraints and Vector optimization  
 
5  Evolutionary Methods 8 
 
5.1  
 
 
 
 
 
5.2 
Introduction to Evolutionary Computation: Generic 
Evolutionary Algorithm, Representation: The Chromosome, 
Initial Population, Fitness Function, Selection: Selective 
Pressure, Random Selection, Proportional 
Selection,Tournament Selection, Rank-Based Selection, 
Elitism and Evolutionary Computation versus Classical 
Optimization, Stopping conditions 
Canonical Genetic Algorithm, Binary Representations of 
Crossover and Mutation: Binary Representations, Control 
Parameters 
 
6  Advance Evolutionary Methods 5 
 6.1 
Basic Particle Swarm Optimization, Global Best PSO, Local 
Best PSO, g-best versus l-best PSO, Velocity Components,  
Geometric Illustration, Algorithm Aspects, Social Network 
Structures  
 6.2 
Ant Colony Optimization Meta-Heuristic, Foraging Behavior 
of Ants, Stigmergy and Artificial Pheromone, Simple Ant 
Colony Optimization, Ant System, Ant Colony System  
 
 
Textbooks: 
1 Mykel J. Kochenderfer, Tim A.Wheeler, Algorithms for Optimization, MIT Press (2019) 
2 Andries P Engelbrecht, Computational Intelligence -An Introduction, Second -Edition, 
Wiley publication 
3 Charu C. Aggarwal, Linear Algebra and Optimization for Machine Learning, , Springer 
,2020. 
References: 
1 SuvritSra, Sebastian Nowozin, Stephen J. Wright, Optimization for Machine Learning,  
The MIT Press 
2 Xin-She Yang Middlesex ,Optimization techniques and applications with examples, 
Wiley 
3 A.E. Eiben, J. E. Smith, Introduction to Evolutionary Computing, Springer 
 
 
Useful Links  
1 Convex optimization (NPTEL) 
2 Constrained and Unconstrained optimization (NPTEL) 
3 Machine-learning-model-performance  (Coursera) 
4 Deep-neural-network optimization (Coursera) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment: 
Internal Assessment: 
Assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The first class test is to be conducted 
when approx. 40% syllabus is completed and second class test when additional 40% syllabus is 
completed. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 Question paper will comprise a total of six questions. 
2 All questions carry equal marks 
3 Questions will be mixed in nature (for example supposed Q.2 has part (a) from module 3 
then part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4 Only Four questions need to be solved. 
5 In question paper weightage of each module will be  proportional to the number of 
respective lecture hours as mentioned in the syllabus. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course Code: Course Title Credit 
CSDC8022 High Performance Computing 3 
 
Prerequisite: Computer Architecture, Operating System, Cloud Computing 
Course Objectives: The objective of the course is to 
1 Introduce the fundamental concepts of high-performance computing (HPC) architecture 
and parallel computing. 
2 Provide foundations for developing, analyzing, and implementing parallel algorithms 
using parallelization paradigms like MPI, OpenMP, OpenCL, and CUDA. 
3 Introduce range of activities associated with HPC in Cloud 
Course Outcomes: After learning the course, the students will be able to: 
1 Understand parallel and pipeline processing approaches 
2 Design a parallel algorithm to solve computational problems and identify issues in parallel 
programming. 
3 Analyze the performance of parallel computing systems for clusters in terms of execution 
time, total parallel overhead, speedup. 
4 Develop efficient and high-performance parallel algorithms using OpenMP and message 
passing paradigm 
5 Develop high-performance parallel programming using OpenCL and CUDA framework 
6 Perform the range of activities associated with High Performance Computing in Cloud 
Computing 
 
Module   Content Hrs 
1  Introduction to Parallel Computing 5 
 1.1 
 
1.2 
 
1.3 
 
1.4 
Parallelism (What, Why, Applications), Levels of parallelism (instruction, 
transaction, task, thread, memory, function) 
Classification Models:  Architectural Schemes( Flynn’s, Shore’s, Feng’s, 
Handler’s) 
Memory Access: Distributed Memory, Shared Memory, Hybrid Distributed 
Shared Memory 
Parallel Architecture: Pipeline Architecture: Arithmetic pipelines, Floating 
Point, Array Processor 
 
2  Parallel Programming Platform and Algorithm Design 11 
 2.1 
 
2.2 
Parallel Programming Platform: Physical Organization of Parallel 
Platforms, Communication Costs in Parallel Machines 
Algorithm Design: Preliminaries, Decomposition Techniques, 
Characteristics of Task s and  Interactions, Mapping Techniques for Load 
Balancing, Methods for Containing Interaction Overheads, Parallel 
Algorithm Models. 
 
3  Performance Measures 3 
  Performance Measures:  Speedup, execution time, efficiency, cost, 
scalability, Effect of granularity on performance, Scalability of Parallel 
Systems, Amdahl‘s Law, Gustavson‘s Law, Performance Bottlenecks, The 
Karp Flatt Metric. 
 
4  HPC Programming:  OpenMP and MPI 10 
 
  
4.1 
 
4.2 
 
4.3 
 
 
 
4.4 
 
 
4.5 
 
4.6 
 
4.7 
HPC Programming:  OpenMP 
Introduction: Threads,  Share memory Architecture,  Multi-core processors 
and Hyperthreading, Fork and join model. 
OpenMP directives: #pragma omp parallel, Hello world with openMP, 
#pragma omp for, #pragma omp for schedule.Serial vs Parallel PI program. 
Synchronisation: Introduction, Private vs Shared variables. 
Critical section, #pragma omp critical, #pragma omp atomic, #pragma omp 
barrier, #pragma omp reduction 
HPC Programming:  MPI 
Introduction: Processes, Multiprocessor programming model, Distributed 
system programming model, Inter -process communication using message 
passing: Asynchronous and Synchronous 
MPI Programming: Hello world problem, mpi_initMPI_sendMPI_Recv, 
Synchronisation: MPI_Barrier 
Hybrid (MPI + OpenMP) programming, Hardware requirement, Threads 
inside Processes, Hybrid Matrix multiplication 
Message passing vs Share memory communication:  Advantages and 
disadvantage 
 
5  Parallel programming using accelerators 4 
  An Overview of  GPGPUs, Introduction to CUDA, Introduction to 
Heterogeneous Computing using OpenCL, An Overview of OpenCL API, 
Heterogeneous Programming in OpenCL. 
 
6  High Performance Computing in the Cloud 4 
  Virtualization and Containerization, Parallel Computing Frameworks, 
Scaling, HPC in the Cloud Use Cases. 
 
 
 
Textbooks: 
1 AnanthGrama, Anshul Gupta, George Karypis, Vipin Kumar “Introduction to Parallel 
Computing”,  2nd edition, Addison Wesley, 2003. 
2 Shane Cook, Morgan Kaufmann “CUDA Programming: A Developer's Guide to Pa rallel 
Computing with GPUs”, 2012. 
3 M. R. Bhujade “Parallel Computing”,2nd edition, New Age International Publishers, 2009. 
4 Kai Hwang, Naresh Jotwani, “Advanced Computer Architecture: Parallelism, Scalability, 
Programmability” McGraw Hill, Second Edition, 2010. 
5 Georg Hager, Gerhard Wellein, Chapman “Introduction to  High Performance Computing 
for Scientists and Engineers” Hall/CRC Computational Science Series, 2011. 
 
References: 
1 Michael J. Quinn “Parallel Programming in C with MPI and OpenMPI” by, McGraw Hill 
Education, 2008. 
2 Kai Hwang ,Zhiwei , “Scalable Parallel Computing: Technology, Architecture, 
Programming”, McGraw-Hill Education, 1998. 
3 Laurence T. Yang, Minyi Guo , “High-Performance Computing: Paradigm and 
Infrastructure”, by, Wiley, 2006. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Useful Links  
1 https://nptel.ac.in/courses/112105293 
2 https://archive.nptel.ac.in/courses/128/106/128106014/ 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment: 
Assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The first -class test is to be conducted 
when approx. 40% syllabus is completed and second -class test when additional 40% syllabus is 
completed. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 Question paper will comprise of total six questions. 
2 All question carries equal marks 
3 Questions will be mixed in nature (for example supposed Q.2 has part (a) from module 3 
then part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4 Only four questions need to be solved. 
5 In question paper weightage of each module will be proportional to number of respective 
lecture hours as mention in the syllabus. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course Code Course Name Credit 
CSDC8023 Social Media Analytics 03 
 
Prerequisite: Graph Theory, Data Mining, Python/R programming 
 
Course Objectives: The course aims: 
1 Familiarize the learners with the concept of social media.  
2  Familiarize the learners with the concept of social media analytics and understand 
its significance. 
3 Enable the learners to develop skills required for analyzing the effectiveness of 
social media. 
4 Familiarize the learners with different tools of social media analytics. 
5 Familiarize the learner with different visualization techniques for Social media 
analytics. 
6 Examine the ethical and legal implications of leveraging social media data. 
 
Course Outcomes: 
1 Understand the concept of Social media  
2 Understand the concept of social media Analytics and its significance. 
3 Learners will be able to analyze the effectiveness of social media     
4 Learners will be able to use different Social media analytics tools effectively and 
efficiently.  
5 Learners will be able to use different effective Visualization techniques to represent 
social media analytics. 
6 Acquire the fundamental perspectives and hands-on skills needed to work with 
social media data. 
 
Module Detailed Content Hours 
1. Social Media Analytics: An Overview  
 Core Characteristics of Social Media, Types of Social Media, Social 
media landscape, Need for Social Media Analytics (SMA), SMA in 
small & large organizations. 
Purpose of Social Media Analytics, Social Media vs. Traditional 
Business Analytics, Seven Layers of Social Media Analytics, Types 
of Social Media Analytics, Social Media Analytics Cycle, Challenges 
to Social Media Analytics, Social Media Analytics Tools 
6 
2. Social Network Structure, Measures & Visualization  
 Basics of Social Network Structure - Nodes, Edges & Tie 
Describing the Networks Measures - Degree Distribution, Density, 
Connectivity, Centralization, Tie Strength & Trust 
Network Visualization - Graph Layout, Visualizing Network 
features, Scale Issues.  
Social Media Network Analytics - Common Network Terms, 
Common Social Media Network Types, Types of Networks, 
Common Network Terminologies, Network Analytics Tools. 
6 
3. Social Media Text,  Action  & Hyperlink Analytics   
 Social Media Text Analytics - Types of Social Media Text, Purpose 
of Text Analytics, Steps in Text Analytics, Social Media Text 
8  
 
Analysis Tools 
Social Media Action Analytics - What Is Actions Analytics? 
Common Social Media Actions, Actions Analytics Tools 
Social Media Hyperlink Analytics - Types of Hyperlinks, Types of 
Hyperlink Analytics, Hyperlink Analytics Tools 
  4. Social Media Location & Search Engine Analytics   
 Location Analytics - Sources of Location Data, Categories of 
Location Analytics, Location Analytics and Privacy Concerns, 
Location Analytics Tools 
Search Engine Analytics - Types of Search Engines, Search Engine 
Analytics, Search Engine Analytics Tools 
6  
5. Social Information Filtering  
 Social Information Filtering - Social Sharing and filtering , 
Automated Recommendation systems, Traditional Vs social 
Recommendation Systems 
Understanding Social Media and Business Alignment, Social Media 
KPI, Formulating a Social Media Strategy, Managing Social Media 
Risks 
6  
6. Social Media Analytics Applications and Privacy  
 Social media in public sector - Analyzing public sector social media, 
analyzing individual users, case study. 
Business use of Social Media - Measuring success, Interaction and 
monitoring, case study. 
Privacy - Privacy policies, data ownership and maintaining privacy 
online. 
7 
 
 
Textbooks: 
1. Seven Layers of Social Media Analytics_ Mining Business Insights from Social Media 
Text, Actions, Networks, Hyperlinks, Apps, Search Engine, and Location Data, Gohar 
F. Khan,(ISBN-10: 1507823207). 
2. Analyzing the Social Web 1st Edition by Jennifer Golbeck 
3. Mining the Social Web_ Analyzing Data from Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and 
Other Social Media Sites, Matthew A Russell, O’Reilly 
4 Charu Aggarwal (ed.), Social Network Data Analytics, Springer, 2011 
 
References: 
1. Social Media Analytics [2015], Techniques and Insights for Extracting Business Value 
Out of Social Media, Matthew Ganis, AvinashKohirkar, IBM Press 
2. Social Media Analytics Strategy_ Using Data to Optimize Business Performance, Alex 
Gonçalves, APress Business Team 
3. Social Media Data Mining and Analytics, Szabo, G., G. Polatkan, O. Boykin & A. 
Chalkiopoulus (2019), Wiley, ISBN 978-1-118-82485-6 
 
Useful Links 
1 https://cse.iitkgp.ac.in/~pawang/courses/SC16.html 
2 https://onlinecourses.nptel.ac.in/noc20_cs78/preview 
3 https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106106146 
4 https://7layersanalytics.com/ 
 
 
 
Assessment: 
Internal Assessment: 
Assessment consists of two class tests of 20 marks each. The first -class test is to be 
conducted when approx. 40% syllabus is completed and second class test when 
additional40% syllabus is completed. Duration of each test shall be one hour. 
End Semester Theory Examination: 
1 Question paper will consist of 6 questions, each carrying 20 marks. 
2 The students need to solve a total of 4 questions. 
3 Question No.1 will be compulsory and based on the entire syllabus. 
4 Remaining question (Q.2 to Q.6) will be selected from all the modules. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course  Code Course Name Credits 
ILO 8021 Project Management 03 
 
Objectives: 
1. To familiarize the students with the use of a structured methodology/approach for each 
and every unique project undertaken, including utilizing project management concepts, 
tools and techniques. 
2. To appraise the students with the project management life cycle and make them 
knowledgeable about the various phases from project initiation through closure. 
 
Outcomes: Learner will be able to… 
1. Apply selection criteria and select an appropriate project from different options. 
2. Write work break down structure for a project and develop a schedule based on it. 
3. Identify opportunities and threats to the project and decide an approach to deal with them 
strategically. 
4. Use Earned value technique and determine & predict status of the project. 
5. Capture lessons learned during project phases and document them for future reference 
 
Module Detailed Contents Hrs 
01 
Project Management Foundation: 
Definition of a project, Project Vs Operations, Necessity of project management, 
Triple constraints, Project life cycles (typical & atypical) Project phases and 
stage gate process.  Role of project manager, Negotiations and resolving 
conflicts, Project management in various organization structures, PM knowledge 
areas as per Project Management Institute (PMI) 
5 
02 
Initiating Projects: 
How to get a project started, Selecting project strategically, Project selection 
models (Numeric /Scoring Models and Non -numeric models), Pr oject portfolio 
process, Project sponsor and creating charter; Project proposal.  Effective project 
team, Stages of team development & growth (forming, storming, norming 
&performing), team dynamics. 
6 
03 
Project Planning and Scheduling: 
Work Breakdown structure (WBS) and linear responsibility chart,  Interface  
Co-ordination and concurrent engineering, Project cost estimation and 
budgeting, Top down and bottoms up budgeting, Networking and Scheduling 
techniques. PERT, CPM, GANTT chart, Introduction to Project Management 
Information System (PMIS).  
8 
04 
Planning Projects: 
Crashing project time, Resource loading and levelling, Goldratt's critical chain, 
Project Stakeholders and Communication plan 
Risk Management in projects: Risk management planning, Risk identification 
and risk register, Qualitative and quantitati ve risk assessment, Probability and 
impact matrix. Risk response strategies for  positive and negative risks 
6 
05 
5.1 Executing Projects: 
Planning monitoring and controlling cycle, Information needs and reporting, 
engaging with all stakeholders of the  pr ojects, Team management, 
communication and project meetings 
5.2 Monitoring and Controlling Projects: 
8 
 
Earned Value Management techniques for measuring value of work completed; 
Using milestones  for measurement; change requests and scope creep, Project 
audit 
5.3 Project Contracting 
Project procurement management, contracting and outsourcing, 
06 
6.1 Project Leadership and Ethics: 
Introduction to project leadership, ethics in projects, Multicultural and virtual 
projects 
6.2 Closing the Project: 
Customer acceptance; Reasons of  project termination, Various types of  project 
terminations (Extinction, Addition, Integration, Starvation),  Process of project 
termination, completing a final report; doing a lessons learned analysis; 
acknowledging successes and failures;  Project management templates and other 
resources; Managing without authority; Areas of further study. 
6 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment for 20 marks: 
Consisting Two Compulsory Class Tests 
First test based on approximately 40% of contents and second test based on remaining contents 
(approximately 40% but excluding contents covered in Test I) 
 
End Semester Examination:   
Weightage of each module in end semester examination will be proportional to number of 
respective lecture hours mentioned in the curriculum. 
1. Question paper will comprise of total six questions, each carrying 20 marks 
2. Question 1  will be compulsory and should cover maximum contents of the 
curriculum 
3. Remaining questions will be mixed in nature  (for example if Q.2 has part (a) from 
module 3 then  part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4. Only Four questions need to be solved 
 
 
REFERENCES: 
1. Project Management: A managerial approach, Jack Meredith & Samuel Mantel, 7th 
Edition, Wiley India 
2. A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK® Guide), 5th Ed, 
Project Management Institute PA, USA 
3. Project Management,Gido Clements, Cengage Learning 
4. Project Management,Gopalan, Wiley India 
5. Project Management,Dennis Lock, 9th Edition, Gower Publishing England 
 
  
 
 
 
Course  Code Course Name Credits 
ILO 8022 Finance Management 03 
 
Objectives: 
1. Overview of Indian financial system, instruments and market 
2. Basic concepts of value of money, returns and risks, corporate finance,  working capital 
and its management 
3. Knowledge about sources of finance, capital structure, dividend policy 
Outcomes: Learner will be able to… 
1. Understand Indian finance system and corporate finance 
2. Take investment, finance as well as dividend decisions 
 
Module Detailed Contents Hrs 
01 
Overview of Indian Financial System: Characteristics, Components and 
Functions of Financial System. 
Financial Instruments: Meaning, Characteristics and Classification of Basic 
Financial Instruments — Equity Shares, Preferen ce Shares, Bonds -Debentures, 
Certificates of Deposit, and Treasury Bills. 
Financial Markets: Meaning, Characteristics and Classification of Financial 
Markets — Capital Market, Money Market and Foreign Currency Market 
Financial Institutions: Meaning, Characteristics and Classification of Financial 
Institutions — Commercial Banks, Investment -Merchant Banks and Stock 
Exchanges 
06 
02 
Concepts of Returns and Risks: Measurement of Historical Returns and 
Expected Returns of a Single Security and a Two -security Portfolio; 
Measurement of Historical Risk and Expected Risk of a Single Security and a 
Two-security Portfolio. 
Time Value of Money: Future Value of a Lump Sum, Ordinary Annuity, and 
Annuity Due; Present Value of a Lump Sum, Ordinary Annuity, and Annuit y 
Due; Continuous Compounding and Continuous Discounting. 
06 
03 
Overview of Corporate Finance: Objectives of Corporate Finance; Functions 
of Corporate Finance—Investment Decision, Financing Decision, and Dividend 
Decision. 
Financial Ratio Analysis: Overview of Financial Statements —Balance Sheet, 
Profit and Loss Account, and Cash Flow Statement; Purpose of Financial Ratio 
Analysis; Liquidity Ratios; Efficiency or Activity Ratios; Profitability Ratios; 
Capital Structure Ratios; Stock Market Ratios; Limitations of Ratio Analysis. 
09 
04 
Capital Budgeting: Meaning and Importance of Capital Budgeting; Inputs for 
Capital Budgeting Decisions; Investment Appraisal Criterion —Accounting Rate 
of Return, Payback Period, Discounted Payback Period, Net Present 
Value(NPV), Profitability Index, Internal Rate of Return (IRR), and Modified 
Internal Rate of Return (MIRR) 
Working Capital Management: Concepts of Meaning Working Capital; 
Importance of Working Capital Management; Factors Affecting an Entity’s 
10 
 
Working Cap ital Needs; Estimation of Working Capital Requirements; 
Management of Inventories; Management of Receivables; and Management of 
Cash and Marketable Securities. 
05 
Sources of Finance: Long Term Sources —Equity, Debt, and Hybrids; 
Mezzanine Finance; Sourc es of Short Term Finance —Trade Credit, Bank 
Finance, Commercial Paper; Project Finance. 
Capital Structure: Factors Affecting an Entity’s Capital Structure; Overview of 
Capital Structure Theories and Approaches — Net Income Approach, Net 
Operating Income Approach; Traditional Approach, and Modigliani -Miller 
Approach. Relation between Capital Structure and Corporate Value; Concept of 
Optimal Capital Structure 
05 
06 
Dividend Policy: Meaning and Importance of Dividend Policy; Factors 
Affecting an Entity’s Dividend Decision; Overview of Dividend Policy Theories 
and Approaches —Gordon’s Approach, Walter’s Approach, and Modigliani -
Miller Approach 
03 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment for 20 marks: 
Consisting Two Compulsory Class Tests 
First test based on approximately 40% of contents and second test based on remaining contents 
(approximately 40% but excluding contents covered in Test I) 
 
End Semester Examination:   
Weightage of each module in end semester examination will be proportional to number of 
respective lecture hours mentioned in the curriculum. 
1. Question paper will comprise of total six questions, each carrying 20 marks 
2. Question 1  will be compulsory and should cover maximum contents of the 
curriculum 
3. Remaining questions will be mixed in nature  (for example if Q.2 has part (a) from 
module 3 then  part (b) will be from any module other than module 3)  
4. Only Four questions need to be solved. 
 
 
REFERENCES: 
1. Fundamentals of Financial Management, 13th Edition (2015) by Eugene F. Brigham and 
Joel F. Houston; Publisher: Cengage Publications, New Delhi. 
2. Analysis for Financial Management, 10th Edition (2013) by Robert C. Higgins; 
Publishers: McGraw Hill Education, New Delhi. 
3. Indian Financial System, 9th Edition (2015) by M. Y. Khan; Publisher: McGraw Hill 
Education, New Delhi. 
4. Financial Management, 11th Edition (2015) by I. M. Pandey; Publisher: S. Chand (G/L) 
& Company Limited, New Delhi. 
  
 
 
Course  Code Course Name Credits 
ILO8023 Entrepreneurship Development and Management 03 
 
Objectives: 
1. To acquaint with entrepreneurship and management of business    
2. Understand Indian environment for entrepreneurship 
3. Idea of EDP, MSME 
Outcomes: Learner will be able to… 
1. Understand the concept of business plan and ownerships 
2. Interpret key regulations and legal aspects of entrepreneurship in India 
3. Understand government policies for entrepreneurs  
 
Module Detailed Contents Hrs 
01 
Overview Of Entrepreneurship:  Definitions, Roles and Functions/Values of 
Entrepreneurship, History of Entrepreneurship Development, Role of 
Entrepreneurship in the National Economy, Functions of an Entrepreneur, 
Entrepreneurship and Forms of Business Ownership 
Role of Money and Capita l Markets in Entrepreneurial Development: 
Contribution of Government Agencies in Sourcing information for 
Entrepreneurship 
04 
02 
Business Plans And Importance Of Capital To Entrepreneurship:  
Preliminary and Marketing Plans, Management and Personnel, Start -up Costs 
and Financing as well as Projected Financial Statements, Legal Section, 
Insurance, Suppliers and Risks, Assumptions and Conclusion, Capital and its 
Importance to the Entrepreneur  
Entrepreneurship And Business Development:  Starting a New Business , 
Buying an Existing Business, New Product Development, Business Growth and 
the Entrepreneur Law and its Relevance to Business Operations 
09 
03 
Women’s Entrepreneurship Development, Social entrepreneurship -role and 
need, EDP cell, role of sustainability a nd sustainable development for SMEs, 
case studies, exercises 
05 
04 
Indian Environment for Entrepreneurship: key regulations and legal aspects , 
MSMED Act 2006 and its implications, schemes and policies of the Ministry of 
MSME, role and responsibilities of various government organisations, 
departments, banks etc., Role of State governments in terms of infrastruc ture 
developments and support etc., Public private partnerships, National Skill 
development Mission, Credit Guarantee Fund, PMEGP, discussions, group 
exercises etc 
08 
05 
Effective Management of Business:  Issues and problems faced by micro and 
small enterprises and effective management of M and S enterprises (risk 
management, credit availability, technology innovation, supply chain 
management, linkage with large industries), exercises, e-Marketing 
08 
06 
Achieving Success In The Small Business:  Stages of the small business life 
cycle, four types of firm-level growth strategies, Options – harvesting or closing 
small business Critical Success factors of small business 
05 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment for 20 marks: 
Consisting Two Compulsory Class Tests 
First test based on approximately 40% of contents and second test based on remaining contents 
(approximately 40% but excluding contents covered in Test I) 
 
End Semester Examination:   
Weightage of each module in end semester examination will be proportional to number of 
respective lecture hours mentioned in the curriculum. 
1. Question paper will comprise of total six questions, each carrying 20 marks 
2. Question 1  will be compulsory and should cover maximum contents of the 
curriculum 
3. Remaining questions will be mixed in nature  (for example if Q.2 has part (a) from 
module 3 then  part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4. Only Four questions need to be solved. 
 
REFERENCES: 
1. Poornima Charantim ath, Entrepreneurship development - Small Business Enterprise, 
Pearson 
2. Education Robert D Hisrich, Michael P Peters, Dean A Shapherd, Entrepreneurship, 
latest edition, The McGrawHill Company 
3. Dr TN Chhabra, Entrepreneurship Development, Sun India Publications, New Delhi 
4. Dr CN Prasad, Small and Medium Enterprises in Global Perspective, New century 
Publications, New Delhi  
5. Vasant Desai, Entrepreneurial development and management, Himalaya Publishing 
House  
6. Maddhurima Lall, Shikah Sahai, Entrepreneurship, Excel Books  
7. Rashmi Bansal, STAY hungry STAY foolish, CIIE, IIM Ahmedabad  
8. Law and Practice relating to Micro, Small and Medium enterprises, Taxmann Publication 
Ltd. 
9. Kurakto, Entrepreneurship- Principles and Practices, Thomson Publication  
10. Laghu Udyog Samachar 
11. www.msme.gov.in  
12. www.dcmesme.gov.in  
13. www.msmetraining.gov.in 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course  Code Course Name Credits 
ILO8024 Human Resource Management 03 
 
Objectives: 
1. To introduce the students with basic concepts, techniques and practices of the human 
resource management 
2. To provide opportunity of learning Human resource management (HRM) processes, 
related with the functions, and challenges in the emerging perspective of today’s 
organizations 
3. To familiarize the stude nts about the latest developments, trends & different aspects of 
HRM 
4. To acquaint the student with the importance of inter -personal & inter-group behavioural 
skills in an organizational setting required for future stable engineers, leaders and 
managers 
 
Outcomes: Learner will be able to… 
1. Understand the concepts, aspects, techniques and practices of the human resource 
management. 
2. Understand the Human resource management (HRM) processes, functions, changes and 
challenges in today’s emerging organizational perspective. 
3. Gain knowledge about the latest developments and trends in HRM. 
4. Apply the knowledge of behavioural skills learnt and integrate it with in inter personal 
and intergroup environment emerging as future stable engineers and managers. 
 
Module Detailed Contents Hrs 
01 
Introduction to HR 
 Human Resource Management - Concept, Scope and Importance, 
Interdisciplinary Approach Relationship with other Sciences, Competencies of 
HR Manager, HRM functions 
 Human resource development (HRD): changing role of  HRM – Human 
resource Planning, Technological change, Restructuring and rightsizing, 
Empowerment, TQM, Managing ethical issues 
5 
02 
Organizational Behaviour (OB) 
 Introduction to OB Origin, Nature and Scope of Organizational Behaviour, 
Relevance to Organizational Effectiveness and Contemporary issues  
 Personality: Meaning and Determinants of Personality, Personality 
development, Personality Types, Assessment of Personality Traits for 
Increasing Self Awareness 
 Perception: Attitude and Value, Effect of perception on Individual Decision -
making, Attitude and Behaviour 
 Motivation:  Theories of Motivation and their Applications for Behavioural 
Change (Maslow, Herzberg, McGregor);  
 Group Behaviour and Group Dynamics: Work groups formal and informal 
groups and stages of group development, Team Effectiveness: High performing 
teams, Team Roles, cross functional and self-directed team. 
 Case study  
7 
03 
Organizational Structure &Design 
 Structure, size, technology, Environment of organization; Organizational Roles 
& conflicts: Concept of roles; role dynamics; role conflicts and stress. 
 Leadership: Concepts and skills of leadership, Leadership and managerial roles, 
Leadership styles and contemporary issues in leadership. 
6 
 
 Power and Politics: Sources and uses of power; Politics at workplace, Tactics 
and strategies. 
04 
Human resource Planning 
 Recruitment and Selection process, Job -enrichment, Empowerment - Job-
Satisfaction, employee morale 
 Performance Appraisal Systems: Traditional & modern methods, Performance 
Counselling, Career Planning 
 Training & Development: Identification of Training Needs, Training Methods 
5 
05 
Emerging Trends in HR 
 Organizational development; Business Process Re -engineering (BPR), BPR as 
a tool for organizational development , managing processes & transformation 
in HR. Organizational Change, Culture, Environment  
 Cross Cultural Leadership and Decision Making : Cross Cultural 
Communication and diversity at work, Causes of diversity, managing diversity 
with special reference to handicapped, women and ageing people, intra 
company cultural difference in employee motivation 
6 
06 
HR & MIS: Need, purpose, objective and role  of information system in HR, 
Applications in HRD in various industries (e.g. manufacturing R&D, Public 
Transport, Hospitals, Hotels and service industries 
Strategic HRM: Role of Strategic HRM in the modern business world, Concept of 
Strategy,  Strategic M anagement Process, Approaches to Strategic Decision 
Making;  Strategic Intent – Corporate Mission, Vision, Objectives and Goals 
Labor Laws & Industrial Relations: Evolution of IR, IR issues in organizations, 
Overview of Labor Laws in India; Industrial Disp utes Act, Trade Unions Act, 
Shops and Establishments Act 
10 
 
Internal Assessment for 20 marks: 
Consisting Two Compulsory Class Tests 
First test based on approximately 40% of contents and second test based on remaining contents 
(approximately 40% but excluding contents covered in Test I) 
 
End Semester Examination:   
Weightage of each module in end semester examination will be proportional to number of 
respective lecture hours mentioned in the curriculum. 
1. Question paper will comprise of total six questions, each carrying 20 marks 
2. Question 1  will be compulsory and should cover maximum contents of the 
curriculum 
3. Remaining questions will be mixed in nature  (for example if Q.2 has part (a) from 
module 3 then  part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4. Only Four questions need to be solved. 
 
REFERENCES: 
1. Stephen Robbins, Organizational Behavior, 16th Ed, 2013 
2. V S P Rao, Human Resource Management, 3rd Ed, 2010, Excel publishing 
3. Aswathapa, Human resource management: Text & cases, 6th edition, 2011 
4. C. B. Mamoria and S V Gankar,  Dynamics of Industrial Relations in India, 15 th Ed, 
2015, Himalaya Publishing, 15thedition, 2015 
5. P. Subba Rao, Essentials of Human Resource management and Industrial relations, 5 th 
Ed, 2013, Himalaya Publishing 
6. Laurie Mullins, Management & Organizational Behavior, Latest Ed, 2016, Pearson 
Publications 
 
 
 
 
Course  Code Course Name Credits 
ILO8025 Professional Ethics and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 03 
 
Objectives: 
1. To understand professional ethics in business 
2. To recognized corporate social responsibility 
Outcomes: Learner will be able to… 
1. Understand rights and duties of business 
2. Distinguish different aspects of corporate social responsibility 
3. Demonstrate professional ethics 
4. Understand legal aspects of corporate social responsibility  
 
Module Detailed Contents Hrs 
01 
Professional Ethics and Business: The Nature of Business Ethics; Ethical 
Issues in Business; Moral Responsibility and Blame; Utilitarianism: Weighing 
Social Costs and Benefits; Rights and Duties of Business 
04 
02 
Professional Ethics in the Marketplace: Perfect Competition; Monopoly 
Competition; Oligopolistic Competition; Oligopolies and Public Policy 
Professional Ethics and the Environment: Dimensions of Pollution and 
Resource Depletion; Ethics of Pollution Control; Ethics of Conserving 
Depletable Resources 
08 
03 
Professional Ethics of Consumer Protection: Markets and Consumer 
Protection; Contract View of Business Firm’s Duties to Consumers; Due Care 
Theory; Advertising Ethics; Consumer Privacy 
Professional Ethics of Job Discrimination: Nature of Job Discrimination; 
Extent of Discrimination; Reservation of Jobs. 
06 
04 
Introduction to Corporate Social Responsibility: Potential Business 
Benefits—Triple bottom line, Human resources, Risk management, Supplier 
relations; Criticisms and concerns—Nature of business; Motives; Misdirection. 
Trajectory of Corporate Social Responsibility in India 
05 
05 
Corporate Social Responsibility: Articulation of Gandhian Trusteeship 
Corporate Social Responsibility and Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in 
India, Corporate Social Responsibility and Public -Private Partnership (PPP) in 
India 
08 
06 
Corporate Social Responsibility in Globalizing India: Corporate Social 
Responsibility Voluntary Guidelines, 2009 issued by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs, Government of India, Legal Aspects of Corporate Social 
Responsibility—Companies Act, 2013. 
08 
 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment for 20 marks: 
Consisting Two Compulsory Class Tests 
First test based on approximately 40% of contents and second test based on remaining contents 
(approximately 40% but excluding contents covered in Test I) 
 
 
 
 
End Semester Examination:   
Weightage of each module in end semester examination will be proportional to number of 
respective lecture hours mentioned in the curriculum. 
1. Question paper will comprise of total six questions, each carrying 20 marks 
2. Question 1  will be compulsory and should cover maximum contents of the 
curriculum 
3. Remaining questions will be mixed in nature  (for example if Q.2 has part (a) from 
module 3 then  part (b) will be from any module other than module 3)  
4. Only Four questions need to be solved. 
 
 
REFERENCES: 
1. Business Ethics: Texts and Cases from the Indian Perspective (2013) by Ananda Das 
Gupta; Publisher: Springer. 
2. Corporate Social Responsibility: Readings and Cases in a Global Context (2007) by 
Andrew Crane, Dirk Matten, Laura Spence; Publisher: Routledge. 
3. Business Ethics: Concepts and Cases, 7th Edition (2011) by Manuel G. Velasquez; 
Publisher: Pearson, New Delhi. 
4. Corporate Social Responsibility in India (2015) by Bidyut Chakrabarty, Routledge, New 
Delhi. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Course  Code Course Name Credits 
ILO8026 Research Methodology 03 
 
Objectives: 
1. To understand Research and Research Process 
2. To acquaint students  with identifying problems for research and develop research 
strategies 
3. To familiarize students with the techniques of data collection, analysis of data and 
interpretation 
Outcomes: Learner will be able to… 
1. Prepare a preliminary research design for projects in their subject matter   areas 
2. Accurately collect, analyze and report data 
3. Present complex data or situations clearly 
4. Review and analyze research findings 
 
Module Detailed Contents Hrs 
01 
Introduction and Basic Research Concepts 
1.1 Research – Definition; Concept of Construct, Postulate, Proposition, Thesis, 
Hypothesis, Law, Principle.Research methods vs Methodology 
1.2 Need of Research in Business and Social Sciences 
1.3 Objectives of Research 
1.4 Issues and Problems in Research 
1.5 Characteristics of Research:Systematic, Valid, Verifiable, Empirical and 
Critical 
09 
02 
Types of Research 
2.1. Basic Research  
2.2. Applied Research  
2.3. Descriptive Research  
2.4. Analytical    Research  
2.5. Empirical Research  
2.6 Qualitative and Quantitative Approaches 
07 
03 
Research Design and Sample Design 
3.1 Research Design – Meaning, Types and Significance 
3.2 Sample Design – Meaning and Significance Essentials of a good sampling 
Stages in Sample Design Sampling methods/techniques Sampling Errors 
07 
04 
Research    Methodology 
4.1 Meaning of Research Methodology 
4.2. Stages in Scientific Research Process:  
a. Identification and Selection of Research Problem 
b. Formulation of Research Problem 
c. Review of Literature 
d. Formulation of Hypothesis 
e. Formulation of research Design 
f. Sample Design 
g. Data Collection 
h. Data Analysis 
i. Hypothesis testing and Interpretation of Data 
j. Preparation of Research Report 
08 
05 
Formulating Research Problem 
5.1 Considerations: Relevance, Interest, Data Availability, Choice of data, 
Analysis of data, Generalization and Interpretation of analysis 
04 
 
06 
Outcome of Research 
6.1 Preparation of the report on conclusion reached 
6.2 Validity Testing & Ethical Issues 
6.3 Suggestions and Recommendation 
04 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment for 20 marks: 
Consisting Two Compulsory Class Tests 
First test based on  approximately  40% of contents and second test based on remaining contents 
(approximately 40% but excluding contents covered in Test I) 
 
End Semester Examination:   
Weightage of each module in end semester examination will be proportional to number of 
respective lecture hours mentioned in the curriculum. 
1. Question paper will comprise of total six questions, each carrying 20 marks 
2. Question 1  will be compulsory and should cover maximum contents of the 
curriculum 
3. Remaining questions will be mixed in nature  (for example if Q.2 has part (a) from 
module 3 then  part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4. Only Four questions need to be solved. 
 
 
REFERENCES: 
1. Dawson, Catherine, 2002, Practical Research Methods, New Delhi, UBS Publishers 
Distributors. 
2. Kothari, C.R.,1985, Research Methodology-Methods and Techniques, New Delhi, Wiley 
Eastern Limited. 
3. Kumar, Ranjit, 2005, Research Methodology -A Step -by-Step Guide for Beginners, 
(2nded), Singapore, Pearson Education 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course  Code Course Name Credits 
ILO8027 IPR and Patenting 03 
 
Objectives: 
1. To understand intellectual property rights protection system 
2. To promote the knowledge of Intellectual Property Laws of India as well as International 
treaty procedures 
3. To get acquaintance with Patent search and patent filing procedure and applications 
Outcomes: Learner will be able to… 
1. understand Intellectual Property assets   
2. assist individuals and organizations in capacity building 
3. work for development, promotion, protection, compliance, and enforcement of 
Intellectual Property and Patenting 
 
Module Detailed Contents Hr 
01 
Introduction to Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) :  Meaning of IPR, 
Different category of IPR instruments - Patents, Trademarks,Copyrights , 
Industrial Designs, Plant variety protection, Geographical indications,Transfer of 
technology etc.  
Importance of IPR in Modern Global Economic Environment: Theories of 
IPR, Philosophical aspects of IPR laws, Need for IPR, IPR as an instrument of 
development 
05 
02 
Enforcement of Intellectual Property Rights: Introduction, Magnitude of 
problem, Factors that create and sustain counterfeiting/piracy, International 
agreements, International organizations (e.g. WIPO, WTO) active in IPR 
enforcement  
Indian Scenario of IPR: Introduction, History of IPR in India, Overview of IP 
laws in India, Indian IPR, Administrative Machinery, Major international treaties 
signed by India, Procedure for submitting patent and Enforcement of IPR at 
national level etc. 
07 
03 Emerging Issues in IPR: Challenges for IP in digital economy, e -commerce, 
human genome, biodiversity and traditional knowledge etc. 05 
04 
Basics of Patents: Definition of Patents, Conditions of patentability, Patentable 
and non -patentable inventions, Types of patent applications (e.g. Patent of 
addition etc), Process Patent and Product Patent, Precautions while patenting, 
Patent specification Patent claims, Disclosures and non-disclosures, Patent rights 
and infringement, Method of getting a patent 
07 
05 
Patent Rules: Indian patent act, European scenario, US scenario, Australia 
scenario, Japan scenario, Chinese scenario, Multilateral treaties where India is a 
member (TRIPS agreement, Paris convention etc.) 
08 
06 
Procedure for Filing a Patent (National and International): Legislation and 
Salient Features, Patent Search, Drafting and Filing Patent  Applications, 
Processing of patent, Patent Litigation, Patent Publication, Time frame and cost, 
Patent Licensing, Patent Infringement 
Patent databases: Important websites, Searching international databases 
07 
 
 
 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment for 20 marks: 
Consisting Two Compulsory Class Tests 
First test based on approximately 40% of contents and second test based on remaining contents 
(approximately 40% but excluding contents covered in Test I) 
 
End Semester Examination:   
Weightage of each module in end semester examination will be proportional to number of 
respective lecture hours mentioned in the curriculum. 
1. Question paper will comprise of total six questions, each carrying 20 marks 
2. Question 1  will be compulsory and should cover maximum contents of the 
curriculum 
3. Remaining questions will be mixed in nature  (for example if Q.2 has part (a) from 
module 3 then  part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4. Only Four questions need to be solved. 
REFERENCE BOOKS: 
1. Rajkumar S. Adukia, 2007, A Handbook on Laws Relating to Intellectual Property 
Rights in India, The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
2. Keayla B K, Patent system and related issues at a glance, Published by National Working 
Group on Patent Laws 
3. T Sengupta, 2011, Intellectual Property Law in India, Kluwer Law International 
4. Tzen Wong and Graham Dutfield, 2010, Intellectual Property and Human  Development: 
Current Trends and Future Scenario, Cambridge University Press 
5. Cornish, William Rodolph & Llewelyn, David. 2010, Intellectual Property: Patents, 
Copyrights, Trade Marks and Allied Right, 7th Edition, Sweet & Maxwell 
6. Lous Harns, 2012, The enforcement of Intellactual Property Rights: A Case Book, 3 rd 
Edition, WIPO 
7. Prabhuddha Ganguli, 2012, Intellectual Property Rights, 1st Edition, TMH 
8. R Radha Krishnan & S Balasubramanian, 2012, Intellectual Property Rights, 1st Edition , 
Excel Books  
9. M Ashok Kumar and mohd Iqbal Ali, 2 -11, Intellectual Property Rights, 2nd Edition, 
Serial Publications 
10. Kompal Bansal and Praishit Bansal, 2012, Fundamentals of IPR for Engineers, 1st 
Edition, BS Publications 
11. Entrepreneurship Development and IPR Unit, BITS Pilani, 2007, A Manual on 
Intellectual Property Rights,  
12. Mathew Y Maa, 2009, Fundamentals of Patenting and Licensing for Scientists and 
Engineers, World Scientific Publishing Company 
13. N S Rathore, S M Mathur, Priti Mathur, Anshul Rathi , IPR: Drafting,Interpretation of 
Patent Specifications and Claims, New India Publishing Agency 
14. Vivien Irish, 2005, Intellectual Property Rights for Engineers,IET 
15. Howard B Rockman, 2004, Intellectual Property Law for Engineers and scientists, 
Wiley-IEEE Press. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course  Code Course Name Credits 
ILO 8028 Digital Business Management 03 
 
Objectives: 
1. To familiarize with digital business concept 
2. To acquaint with E-commerce 
3. To give insights into E-business and its strategies 
 
Outcomes: The learner will be able to ….. 
1. Identify drivers of digital business 
2. Illustrate various approaches and techniques for E-business and management 
3. Prepare E-business plan 
 
Module Detailed content Hours 
1 
Introduction to Digital Business- 
Introduction, Background and current status, E -market places, structures, 
mechanisms, economics and impacts 
Difference between physical economy and digital economy,  
Drivers of digital business - Big Data & Analytics, Mobile, Cloud 
Computing, Social media, BYOD, and Internet of Things(digitally intelligent 
machines/services) 
Opportunities and Challenges in Digital Business, 
09 
2 
Overview of E-Commerce 
E-Commerce- Meaning, Retailing in e -commerce-products and services, 
consumer behavior, market research and advertisement 
B2B-E-commerce-selling and buying in private e -markets, public B2B 
exchanges and support services, e -supply chains, Collaborative Commerce, 
Intra business EC and Corporate portals 
Other E -C models and applications, innovative EC System -From E -
government and learning to C2C, mobile commerce and pervasive 
computing 
EC Strategy and Implementation-EC strategy and global EC, Economics and 
Justification of EC, Using Affiliate marketing to promote your e -commerce 
business, Launching a successful onli ne business and EC project, Legal, 
Ethics and Societal impacts of EC 
06 
3 
Digital Business Support services:  ERP as e –business backbone, 
knowledge Tope Apps, Information and referral system 
Application Development: Building Digital business Applications  and 
Infrastructure 
06 
4 
Managing E-Business-Managing Knowledge,  Management skills for e-
business, Managing Risks in e –business 
Security Threats to e -business -Security Overview, Electronic Commerce 
Threats, Encryption, Cryptography, Public Key and Priv ate Key 
Cryptography, Digital Signatures, Digital Certificates, Security Protocols 
over Public Networks: HTTP, SSL, Firewall as Security Control, Public Key 
Infrastructure (PKI) for Security, Prominent Cryptographic Applications 
06 
5 
E-Business Strategy-E-business Strategic formulation- Analysis of 
Company’s Internal and external environment, Selection of strategy,  
E-business strategy into Action, challenges and E-Transition 
(Process of Digital Transformation) 
04 
6 Materializing e -business: From Idea to Realization -Business plan 
preparation 
Case Studies and presentations 
08 
 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment for 20 marks: 
Consisting Two Compulsory Class Tests 
First test based on approximately 40% of contents and second test based on remaining contents 
(approximately 40% but excluding contents covered in Test I) 
 
End Semester Examination:   
Weightage of each module in end semester examination will be proportional to number of 
respective lecture hours mentioned in the curriculum. 
1. Question paper will comprise of total six questions, each carrying 20 marks 
2. Question 1  will be compulsory and should cover maximum contents of the 
curriculum 
3. Remaining questions will be mixed in nature  (for example if Q.2 has part (a) from 
module 3 then  part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4. Only Four questions need to be solved. 
 
References: 
 
1. A textbook on E -commerce, Er Arunrajan Mishra, Dr W K Sarwade,Neha Publishers & 
Distributors, 2011 
2. E-commerce from vision to fulfilment, Elias M. Awad, PHI-Restricted, 2002 
3. Digital Business and E -Commerce Management, 6th Ed, Dave Chaffey, Pearson, August 
2014 
4. Introduction to E-business-Management and Strategy, Colin Combe, ELSVIER, 2006 
5. Digital Business Concepts and Strategy, Eloise Coupey, 2nd Edition, Pearson 
6. Trend and Challenges in Digital Business Innovation, VinocenzoMorabito, Springer 
7. Digital Business Discourse Erika Darics, April 2015, Palgrave Macmillan 
8. E-Governance-Challenges and Opportunities in : Proceedings in 2 nd International 
Conference theory and practice of Electronic Governance 
9. Perspectives the Digital Enterprise –A framework for Transformation, TCS consulting 
journal Vol.5 
10. Measuring Digital Economy-A new perspective- DoI:10.1787/9789264221796-enOECD 
Publishing 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course  Code Course Name Credits  
ILO8029 Environmental Management 03 
 
Objectives: 
1. Understand and identify environmental issues relevant to India and global concerns 
2. Learn concepts of ecology 
3. Familiarise environment related legislations  
Outcomes: Learner will be able to… 
1. Understand the concept of environmental management 
2. Understand ecosystem and interdependence, food chain etc. 
3. Understand and interpret environment related legislations 
 
Modul
e Detailed Contents Hrs 
01 
Introduction and Definition of Environment: Significance of Environment 
Management for contemporary managers, Career opportunities, 
Environmental issues relevant to India, Sustainable Development, the Energy 
scenario 
10 
02 
Global Environmental concerns : Global Warming, Acid Rain, Ozone 
Depletion, Hazardous Wastes, Endangered life-species, Loss of Biodiversity, 
Industrial/Man-made  disasters, Atomic/Biomedical hazards, etc. 
06 
03 Concepts of Ecology: Ecosystems  and interdependence between living 
organisms, habitats, limiting factors, carrying capacity, food chain, etc. 
05 
04 
Scope of Environment Management, Role and functions of Government as a 
planning and regulating agency 
Environment Quality Management and Corporate Environmental 
Responsibility 
10 
05 Total Quality Environmental Management, ISO-14000, EMS certification. 05 
06 
General overview of major legislations like Environment Protection Act, Air 
(P & CP) Act, Water (P & CP) Act, Wildlife Protection Act, Forest Act, 
Factories Act, etc. 
03 
 
Assessment: 
 
Internal Assessment for 20 marks: 
Consisting Two Compulsory Class Tests 
First test based on approximately 40% of contents and second test based on remaining contents 
(approximately 40% but excluding contents covered in Test I) 
 
 
End Semester Examination:   
Weightage of each module in end semester examination will be proportional to number of 
respective lecture hours mentioned in the curriculum. 
1. Question paper will comprise of total six questions, each carrying 20 marks 
2. Question 1  will be compulsory and should cover maximum contents of the 
curriculum 
 
3. Remaining questions will be mixed in nature  (for example if Q.2 has part (a) from 
module 3 then  part (b) will be from any module other than module 3) 
4. Only Four questions need to be solved. 
 
 
 
REFERENCES: 
1. Environmental Management: Principles and Practice, C J Barrow, Routledge Publishers 
London, 1999 
2. A Handbook of Environmental Management Edited by Jon C. Lovett and David G. 
Ockwell, Edward Elgar Publishing 
3. Environmental Management V Ramachandra and Vijay Kulkarni, TERI Press 
4. Indian Standard Environmental Management Systems — Requirements With Guidance 
For Use, Bureau Of Indian Standards, February 2005 
5. Environmental Management: An Indian Perspective, S N Chary and Vinod Vyasulu, 
Maclillan India, 2000 
6. Introduction to Environmental Management, Mary K Theodore and Louise Theodore, 
CRC Press 
Environment and Ecology, Majid Hussain, 3rd Ed. Access Publishing.2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lab Code Lab Name Credit 
CSL801 Distributed Computing Lab 1 
 
Prerequisite: Computer Networks and Operating Systems. 
Lab Objectives:  
1 To understand basic underlying concepts of forming distributed systems. 
2 To learn the concept of clock Synchronization 
3 To learn Election Algorithm. 
4 To explore mutual exclusion algorithms and deadlock handling in the distributed system 
5 To study resource allocation and management. 
6 To understand the Distributed File System 
Lab Outcomes: At the end of the course, the students will be able to 
1 Develop test and debug usingMessage-Oriented Communication or RPC/RMI based 
client-server programs. 
2 Implement techniques for clock synchronization. 
3 Implement techniques for Election Algorithms. 
4 Demonstrate mutual exclusion algorithms and deadlock handling. 
5 Implement techniques of resource and process management. 
6 Describe the concepts of distributed File Systems with some case studies. 
 
Suggested List of Experiments 
Sr. No.     Title of Experiment  
1 Inter-process communication 
2 Client/Server using RPC/RMI 
3 Group Communication 
4 Clock Synchronization algorithms 
5 Election Algorithm. 
6 Mutual Exclusion Algorithm 
7 Deadlock Management in Distributed System 
8 Load Balancing 
9 Distributed shared Memory 
10 Distributed File System (AFS/CODA) 
11 Case Study: CORBA 
12 Case Study: Android Stack 
 
 
Term Work: 
1 Term work should consist of 10 experiments. 
2 Journal must include at least 2 assignments on content of theory and practical of CSC801 and 
CSL801(Distributed Computing) 
3 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensure satisfactory performance of 
laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. 
4 Total 25 Marks (Experiments: 15-marks, Attendance Theory & Practical: 05-marks, 
Assignments: 05-marks) 
Oral and Practical exam 
Based on the entire syllabus of CSC 801: Distributed Computing and CSL801: Distributed 
Computing Lab 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lab Code Lab Name Credit 
CSDL8021 Deep Learning Lab 1 
 
Prerequisite: Python Programming, Engineering Mathematics 
 
Lab Objectives:  
1 To implement basic neural network models for simulating logic gates. 
2 To implement various training algorithms for feedforward neural networks. 
3 To design deep learning models for supervised, unsupervised and sequence learning. 
 
Lab Outcomes: At the end of the course, the students will be able to 
1 Implement basic neural network models to learn logic functions. 
2 Design and train feedforward neural networks using various learning algorithms. 
3 Build and train deep learning models such as Autoencoders, CNNs, RNN, LSTM etc. 
 
 
Suggested List of Experiments 
1. Based on Module 1 (Any two) using Virtual Lab 
 1. Implement Mc-Culloch Pitts model for binary logic functions. 
2. Implement Perceptron algorithm to simulate any logic gate. 
3. Implement Multilayer Perceptron algorithm to simulate XOR gate. 
4. To explore python libraries for deep learning e.g. Theano, TensorFlow  etc. 
2 Module 2 (Any Two) 
 5. Apply any of the following learning algorithms to learn the parameters of the 
supervised single layer feed forward neural network. 
a. Stochastic Gradient Descent 
b. Mini Batch Gradient Descent 
c. Momentum GD 
d. Nestorev GD 
e. Adagrad GD 
f. Adam Learning GD 
6. Implement a backpropagation  algorithm to train a DNN with at le ast 2 hidden 
layers. 
7. Design and implement a fully connected deep neural network with at least 2 
hidden layers for a classification application. Use appropriate Learning Algorithm, 
output function and loss function. 
4. Module 3 (Any One) 
 8. Design the architecture and implement the autoencoder model for Image 
Compression. 
9. Design the architecture and implement the autoencoder model for Image 
denoising. 
5 Module 4 (Any One) 
 10. Design and implement a CNN model for digit recognition application. 
11. Design and implement a CNN model for image classification. 
6 Module 5 (Any One) 
 
 12. Design and implement LSTM for Sentiment Analysis. 
13. Design and implement GRU for classification on text data. 
14. Design and implement RNN for classification of temporal data. 
 
 
Term Work: 
1 Term work should consist of 8 experiments. 
2 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures satisfactory  performance of 
laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. 
3 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures satisfactory performance of 
laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. Total 25 Marks (Experiments: 
15-marks, Attendance Theory & Practical: 05-marks, Assignment: 05-marks) 
 
Practical and Oral exam 
 Based on the entire syllabus of CSDC8011: Deep Learning and CSDL8011: Deep Learning 
Lab 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lab Code Lab Name Credit 
CSDL8022 Digital Forensics Lab 1 
 
Prerequisite: Computer Network, Cryptography and System Security 
 
Lab Objectives:  
1 To demonstrate the procedures for identification, preservation, and acquisition of digital 
evidence. 
2 To demonstrate techniques and tools used in digital forensics for operating systems and 
malware investigation. 
3 To demonstrate tools  formobile forensics and browser, email forensics 
4 To explore scenario based crime forensics investigations. 
 
Lab Outcomes: At the end of the course, the students will be able to 
1 Explore various forensics tools and use them to acquire, duplicate and analyze data and 
recover deleted data. 
2 Implement penetration testing using forensics tools. 
3 Explore various forensics tools and use them to acquire and analyze live and static data. 
4 Verification of source and content authentication of emails and browsers.  
5 Demonstrate Timeline Report Analysis using forensics tools. 
6 Discuss real time crime forensics investigations scenarios. 
 
Suggested List of Experiments   
Sr. No.     Title of Experiment  
1 Analysis of forensic images using open source tools.  
● FTK Imager 
● Autopsy 
2 Explore forensics tools in kali linux for acquiring, analyzing and duplicating data. 
● dd 
● dcfldd 
3 Performing penetration testing using Metasploit - kali Linux.  
4 Performing RAM Forensic to analyze memory images to find traces of an attack. 
● Capturing RAM Using the DumpIt Tool 
● Volatility tool 
5 Network forensics using Network Miner. 
6 Windows Recycle Bin Forensics 
7 Data Carving using open source tools 
● Foremost  
● Scalpel 
● Jpegcarver 
8 USB Device Forensics using  
● USBDeview 
● USB Detective 
9 Web Browser Forensics using DB Browser for SQLite  
10 Generate a Timeline Report Using Autopsy 
11 Email Analysis    
12 Case Study 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Term Work: 
1 Term work should consist of  7 experiments covering all the modules and one case study. 
2 Journal must include at least 2 assignments on content of theory and practical  
3 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures satisfactory  performance of 
laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. 
4 Total 25 Marks (Experiments & Ca se Study : 15-marks, Attendance Theory & Practical: 05 -
marks, Assignments: 05-marks) 
 
Oral & Practical exam 
 Based on the entire syllabus of  CSDC8012 - Digital Forensics and CSDL8012 - Digital 
Forensics Lab 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lab Code Lab Name Credit 
CSL8023                           Applied Data Science Lab 1 
 
Prerequisite: Engineering Mathematics, Machine Learning, Programming fundamentals 
Lab Objectives: 
1 To explore various stages in the data science lifecycle. 
2 To understand data preparation, exploration and visualization techniques. 
3 To model and evaluate different supervised/unsupervised learning techniques. 
Lab Outcomes: At the end of the course, the students will be able to 
1 Apply various stages of the data science lifecycle for the selected case study.  
2 Demonstrate data preparation, exploration and visualization techniques. 
3 Implement and evaluate different supervised and unsupervised techniques.  
 
 
Suggested List of Experiments 
(Select a case study and perform the experiments 1 to 8.). 
Star (*) marked experiments are compulsory. 
Name of the Experiment 
1. Explore the descriptive and inferential statistics on the given dataset. 
2. Apply data cleaning techniques (e.g. Data Imputation). 
3. Explore data visualization techniques. 
4. Implement  and  explore performance evaluation metrics for Data Models 
(Supervised/Unsupervised Learning) 
5. Use SMOTE technique to generate synthetic data.(to solve the problem of class imbalance) 
6. Outlier detection using distance based/density based method. 
7. Implement time series forecasting. 
Illustrate data science lifecycle for selected case study. (Prepare case study document for the 
selected case study) 
Suggested Case Studies: 
1. Customer Segmentation 
2. Fraud Detection 
3. House Price prediction 
4. Product Recommendation 
5. Stock price prediction 
6. Weather prediction 
Suggested Assignment List 
Assignments can be given on self learning topics or data deployment tools. 
 
Term Work: 
1 Term work should consist of 8 experiments. 
2 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures satisfactory  performance of 
laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. 
3 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures satisfactory  performance of 
laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. Total 25 Marks (Experiments: 15 -
marks, Attendance Theory & Practical: 05-marks, Assignment: 05-marks) 
Practical and Oral exam 
 Based on the entire syllabus of CSDC 8013: Applied Data Science and CSDL 8013: Applied 
Data Science Lab 
 
 
 
 
Lab Code Lab Name Credit 
CSDL8021 Optimization in Machine Learning Lab 1 
 
Prerequisite: Algorithms and data structures 
Lab Objectives:  
1 To apply derivative based optimization techniques  
2 To understand evolutionary optimization to a given machine learning problem. 
3 To apply advanced evolutionary optimization 
4 To design and analyze  optimization problems for real world applications  
Lab Outcomes: At the end of the course, the students will be able to 
1 To implement derivative based optimization techniques 
2 To implement evolutionary optimization 
3 To implement advanced evolutionary optimization 
4 To apply efficient optimization algorithm for real world applications 
 
Suggested List of Experiments 
Sr. No.     Title of Experiment  
1 To implement Gradient Descent algorithm 
2 To implement the Stochastic Gradient Descent algorithm 
3 To implement Newton method  
4 To apply  Genetic Algorithm for real world problem 
5 To compare and implement different selection mechanism using genetic algorithm 
6 To implement various mutation and crossover mechanisms 
7 To implement Particles Swarm optimization  
8 To implement Ant colony optimization  
 
Term Work: 
1 Term work should consist of 6 experiments. 
2 Journal must include at least 2 assignments on content of theory and practical of 
“Optimization in Machine Learning” 
3 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures satisfactory performance of 
laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. 
4 Total 25 Marks (Experiments and assignments: 15-marks, Attendance Theory & Practical: 05-
marks, Case study /Mini project: 05-marks) 
Practical and Oral exam 
 Based on the entire syllabus of CSDC8021: Optimization in Machine Learning and 
CSDL8021: Optimization in Machine Learning 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lab Code Lab Name Credit 
CSDL8022 High Performance Computing Lab 1 
 
 
Prerequisite: C Programming 
Lab Objectives: The objective of the course is to: 
1  Enable students to build the logic to parallelize the programming task. 
2  Give insight about performance of parallel computing systems. 
3  Provide hands-on experience on parallel programming platforms/frameworks 
Lab Outcomes: After learning the course, the students will be able to:  
1 Perform Linux based commands on remote machine 
2 Compare the performance of sequential algorithms with parallel algorithm in terms of 
execution time, speedup and throughput. 
3 Implement parallel program using OpenMP libraryand analyze its performance 
4 Implement parallel program using MPIplatform and analyze its performance 
5 Implement parallel program using OpenCL framework and analyze its performance  
6 Implement parallel program using CUDA framework and analyze its performance 
 
 
Suggested Experiments: Students are required to complete at least 8 experiments. 
Star (*) marked experiments are compulsory. 
Sr. 
No. 
Name of the Experiment 
1* To analyse the Linux based computer systems using following commands: 
a. top , b.ps , c. kill,  d. cat /proc/cpuinfoe.vmstat 
Hardware/Software Requirement: Linux Operating System 
2* To setup SSH passwordless logins for two or more Linux based machines and execute 
commands on a remote machine. 
Hardware/Software Requirement: Linux Operating System,  
Multi-core computer systems 
3* Write a program in C to multiply two matrices of size 10000 x 10000 each and find it's 
execution-time using "time" command. Try to run this program on two or more 
machines having different configurations and compare execution-times obtained in 
each run. Comment on which factors affect the performance of the program. 
Hardware/Software Requirement: Linux Operating System, gcc compiler,Multi-core 
computer systems 
4* Write a "Hello World" program using OpenMP library also display number of threads 
created during execution. 
Hardware/Software Requirement: Linux Operating System, gcc compiler,Dual core 
with HT or Quad-core or higher computer system. 
5* 
Write a parallel program to calculate the value of PI/Area of Circle using OpenMP 
library. 
Hardware/Software Requirement: Linux Operating System, gcc compiler,Dual core 
 
with HT or Quad-core or higher computer system. 
6* Write a parallel program to multiply two matrices using openMP library and compare 
the execution time with its serial version. Also change the number of threads using 
omp_set_num_threads() function and analyse how thread count affects the execution 
time.  
Hardware/Software Requirement: Linux Operating System, gcc compiler,Dual core 
with HT or Quad-core or higher computer system. 
7* Install MPICH library and write a "Hello World" program for the same. 
Hardware/Software Requirement: Linux Operating System, MPICH, Multi-processor 
systems or MPI Cluster. 
8* Write a parallel program to multiply two matrices using MPI library and compare the 
execution-time with it’s OpenMP and serial version. 
Hardware/Software Requirement: Linux Operating System, MPICH, gcc, Multi-
processor systems, or MPI Cluster. 
9* Install MPICH on two and more machines and create a MPI cluster. Execute MPI 
programs on this cluster and check the performance. 
Hardware/Software Requirement: Linux Operating System, MPICH, Multi-processor 
systems or MPI Cluster. 
10* Implement a program to demonstrate balancing workload on MPI platform. 
Hardware/Software Requirement: Linux Operating System, MPICH, Multi-processor 
systems or MPI Cluster. 
11 Implement a parallel program to demonstrate the cube of N number within a set range 
using MPI/OpenMP/OpenCL/CUDA. 
Hardware/Software Requirement: Linux Operating System, MPICH, Multi-processor 
systems or MPI Cluster. 
A CUDA-capable GPU,A supported version of Microsoft Windows,A supported version 
of Microsoft Visual Studio, The NVIDIA CUDA Toolkit 
12 Implement DFT computation of vector using OpenCL/CUDA/ Parallel Matlab 
Hardware/Software Requirement: A CUDA-capable GPU,A supported version of 
Microsoft Windows,A supported version of Microsoft Visual Studio, The NVIDIA 
CUDA Toolkit 
13 Implement Two Vector addition using OpenCL/CUDA/ Parallel Matlab 
Hardware/Software Requirement: A CUDA-capable GPU, A supported version of 
Microsoft Windows,A supported version of Microsoft Visual Studio, The NVIDIA 
CUDA Toolkit  
14 Implement even-odd/Bucket /Radix /Shell sort using OpenCL/CUDA/ Parallel Matlab 
Hardware/Software Requirement: A CUDA-capable GPU, A supported version of 
Microsoft Windows,A supported version of Microsoft Visual Studio, The NVIDIA 
CUDA Toolkit 
 
 
Term Work: 
1 Term work should consist of 8 experiments. 
2 Journal must include at least 2 assignments. 
3 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures that satisfactory performance of 
laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. 
4 Total 25 Marks (Experiments: 15-marks, Attendance Theory & Practical: 05-marks, 
Assignments: 05-marks) 
Practical  and Oral  Exam 
 Based on the entire syllabus of   CSDC8022 : High Performance   Computing  and 
CSDL8022 High Performance  Computing Lab 
 
 
 
 
Lab Code Lab Name Credit 
CSDL8023 Social Media Analytics Lab 1 
 
 
Prerequisite: Types of Graphs, Data Mining, Data Analytics 
Lab Objectives: 
1 To understand the fundamental concepts of social media networks. 
2 To learn various social media analytics tools and evaluation matrices. 
3 To collect and store social media data. 
4 To analyze and visualize social media data 
5 To design and develop social media analytics models. 
6 To design and build a social media analytics application. 
Lab Outcomes: The students will be able to 
1 Understand characteristics and types of social media networks. 
2   Use social media analytics tools for business 
3   Collect, monitor , store and  track  social media  data 
4  Analyze and visualize social media data from multiple platforms 
5   Design and develop content and structure based social media analytics models. 
6.    Design and implement social media analytics applications for business. 
 
 
Suggested Experiments:  
 
Sr. No. Name of the Experiment 
1 Study various - 
i) Social Media platforms ( Facebook, twitter, YouTubeetc)  
ii) Social Media analytics tools ( Facebook insights, google analytics net 
lyticetc) 
iii) Social Media Analytics techniques  and engagement metrics (page level, 
post level,    member level) 
iv) Applications of Social media analytics for business. 
            e.g. Google Analytics 
        https://marketingplatform.google.com/about/analytics/ 
        https://netlytic.org/ 
2 Data Collection-Select the social media platforms of your choice (Twitter, 
Facebook, LinkedIn, YouTube, Web blogs etc) ,connect to and capture social media 
data for business  ( scraping, crawling, parsing). 
3 Data Cleaning and Storage- Preprocess, filter and store social media data for 
business (Using Python, MongoDB, R, etc). 
4 Exploratory Data Analysis and visualizationof Social Media Data for business. 
5 Develop Content (text, emoticons, image, audio, video) based social media analytics 
model for business. 
(e.g. Content Based Analysis :Topic , Issue ,Trend, sentiment/opinion analysis, 
audio, video, image analytics) 
6 Develop Structure based social media analytics model for any business. 
( e.g. Structure Based Models  -community detection, influence analysis) 
7 Develop a dashboard and reporting tool based on real time social media data. 
8 Design the creative content for promotion of your business on social media 
 
platform. 
9  Analyze competitor activities using social media data. 
10  Develop social media text analytics models for improving existing product/ service 
by analyzing customer’s reviews/comments. 
 
Reference Books: 
 
1 
Python Social Media Analytics: Analyze and visualize data from Twitter, YouTube, 
GitHub, and more Kindle Edition by Siddhartha Chatterjee , Michal Krystyanczuk 
2 Learning Social Media Analytics with R,byRaghav Bali, Dipanjan Sarkar, Tushar 
Sharma. 
3 Jennifer Golbeck, Analyzing the social web, Morgan Kaufmann, 2013 
4 Matthew A. Russell. Mining the Social Web: Data Mining Facebook, Twitter, 
Linkedin, Google+, Github, and More, 2nd Edition, O'Reilly Media, 2013 
5 Charu Aggarwal (ed.), Social Network Data Analytics, Springer, 2011 
 
Term Work: 
1 Term work should consist of 10 experiments. 
2 Journal must include at least 2 assignments. 
3 The final certification and acceptance of term work ensures satisfactory performance 
of laboratory work and minimum passing marks in term work. 
4 Total 25 Marks (Experiments: 15-marks, Attendance Theory & Practical: 05-marks, 
Assignments: 05-marks) 
Practical  and Oral  Exam 
Based on the entire syllabus of   CSDC8023: Social Media Analytics and CSDL80223: Social 
Media Analytics Lab 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course Code Course Name Credit 
CSP801  Major Project 2 06 
 
 
Course Objectives:: 
The Project work facilitates the students to develop and prove Technical, Professional and 
Ethical skills and knowledge gained during graduation program by applying them from 
problem identification to successful completion of the project by implementing the solution. 
Course Outcomes: Student  will able to   
1 Implement solutions for the selected problem by applying technical and 
professional skills. 
2 Analyze impact of solutions in societal and environmental context for sustainable 
development. 
3 Collaborate best practices along with effective use of modern tools. 
4 Develop proficiency in oral and written communication with effective leadership 
and teamwork. 
5 Nurture professional and ethical behavior. 
6 Gain expertise that helps in building lifelong learning experience. 
 
 
Guidelines:  
 
1. Internal guide has to keep track of the progress of the project and also has to maintain 
attendance report. This progress report can be used for awarding term work marks.  
 
2. Project Report Format:  
At the end of semester, each group needs to prepare a project report as per the guidelines 
issued by the University of Mumbai. Report should be submitted in hardcopy. Also, each 
group should submit softcopy of the report along with project documentation, 
implementation code, required utilities, software and user Manuals. 
 
A project report should preferably contain at least following details: 
o Abstract 
o Introduction 
o Literature Survey/ Existing system 
o Limitation Existing system or research gap 
o Problem Statement and Objective 
o Proposed System 
o Analysis/Framework/ Algorithm 
o Design details 
o Methodology (your approach to solve the problem) Proposed System  
o Experimental Set up 
 
o Details of Database or details about input to systems or selected data 
o Performance Evaluation Parameters (for Validation) 
o Software and Hardware Set up 
o Results and Discussion 
o Conclusion and Future Work 
o References  
o Appendix – List of Publications or certificates 
 
Desirable:  
     Students should be encouraged - 
o to participate in various project competition. 
o to write minimum one technical paper & publish in good journal. 
o to participate in national / international conference. 
 
3. Term Work:  
 
Distribution of marks for term work shall be done based on following: 
a. Weekly Log Report 
b. Completeness of the project and Project Work Contribution 
c. Project Report (Black Book) (both side print) 
d. Term End Presentation (Internal)  
 
The final certification and acceptance of TW ensures the satisfactory performance on 
the above aspects.  
 
4.   Oral & Practical:  
 
Oral &Practical examination (Final Project Evaluation) of Project 2 should be conducted by 
Internal and External examiners approved by University of Mumbai at the end of the 
semester. 
 
Suggested quality evaluation parameters are as following: 
a. Relevance to the specialization / industrial trends  
b. Modern tools used 
c. Innovation 
d. Quality of work and completeness of the project 
e. Validation of results 
f. Impact and business value 
g. Quality of written and oral presentation 
h. Individual as well as team work 
 
 
 
 
 
 
