Admission FAQ's | APSIT
Skip to main content
Toggle navigation
Parshvanath Charitable Trust's A. P. Shah Institute of Technology
(Religious Jain Minority Institute, Affiliated to University of Mumbai, Approved by AICTE Delhi & DTE)
Survey no 12, 13, Opp. Hypercity Mall, Kasarvadavali, Ghodbunder Road, Thane (W) 400 615, Maharashtra. Mob: 7738305400
Main navigation
Home
About
About
Approvals
Institutional Development Plan
APSIT-NIRF DATA
NBA Accreditation
Mandatory Disclosure
Balance Sheet
Admin
Governing Body
Principal
Controller of Examination
Board of Management
Academic Council
Board of Studies
Finance Committee
Internal Complaint Committee
Student Grievance Redressal Committee(SGRC)
Academic Leadership
Academics
Details of Academic Programs
Academic Calendar
Statutes/Ordinances pertaining to Academics/Examinations
Departments
AI and ML
Data Science
Computer  Engineering
Civil Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Information Technology
Vision and Mission
Faculty profile
Activities
Laboratories
Student Committee
Humanities and Applied Sciences
Library
Library Policy
Library Services
Rules for Students
Academic Collaborations
Mechanical  Engineering
Computer Engineering/IT/ EXTC
Civil Engineering
Syllabus
Computer Engineering
Information Technology
CSE AI & ML
CSE Data Science
Honors & Minor Degree
Admissions
Prospectus
Admission process and guidelines
Fee Refund Policy
Institute Brochure 2025-26
Admission Criteria
Fee Structure 2025-26
Admission FAQ's
Research
Entrepreneurship Development Cell
Research & Development
IPR
Start-Up policy
Central Facilities
Student Life
Sports Facilities
National Service Scheme (NSS)
Placements
About us
Placement Record
Training and Placement Officer
Student Grievance Redressal Committee(SGRC)
Health Facilities
Internal Complaint Committee
Anti-Ragging Cell
Facilities for differently-abled
Academic Initiatives
Attendance Reward Scheme
E-Learning Platform
NPTEL Local Chapter
IIT Bombay Super Resource Center
Xpression Club
Free GATE/GRE*/CAT* Coaching
Aptitude Training
Project Based Learning (PBL)
The MAC Club
Foreign Language Courses
ICASTe 2k19 Conference
Mentoring
Institution's Innovation Council - IIC
Counselling
Counselor
FAQ's
Industry Institute Interaction Cell
Exalt : Technical Fest
Student Council
Women Development Cell
Equal Opportunity Cell - APSIT
Socio-Economically Disadvantaged Groups Cell (SEDG)
Alumni
Alumni Association with details
Information
Announcements
Circulars & Notices
Newsletters
Job Openings
Gallery
Photos
Contacts
Convocation Ceremony @APSIT
Our Recruiters
Capgemini Placed Students of 2025 Batch
LTI Mind Tree Placed Students
APSIT: Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE), Maharashtra-Goa has awarded. APSIT "The Best Engineering College" and "Best Principal"
AurionPro Placed Students
ADMISSION FAQ's
When does admission start UG Engineering program?
Admissions generally begin after the result of MHT-CET Exam and continues till the cutoff date of admissions given by CET CELL.
What is the Eligibility Criteria for Admission?
Candidate should be Domicile of Maharashtra and have passed HSC or its equivalent examination with Physics and Mathematics as compulsory subjects along with one of the Chemistry or Biotechnology or Biology or Technical or Vocational Subjects obtaining at least 45% marks (at least 40% marks, in case of Backward class categories and persons with Disability candidates belonging to Maharashtra State only) in the above subjects taken together; and obtained score in CET conducted by the Competent Authority.
Is Entrance exam is mandatory? If Yes then which?
Yes, Entrance Exam is mandatory. Candidate must have given MHT-CET or JEE Exam of the current year.
Can Students from Other State Of India take Admission In APSIT?
Yes. Depending on the MHT– CET 2025/ JEE (Main) score of current year and passing XIIth examination in English with minimum 45% marks in PCM candidate can take admission. Also Registration and Enrollment on the web portal of State Common Entrance Test Cell, Govt. of Maharashtra is MANDATORY.
What documents are required along with the Institute Level/ ACAP Vacancy Application form and within how many days does it get processed?
Candidate needs to submit xerox copy of SC/FC Registration, SSC Marksheet, HSC Marksheet, Migration, MHT-CET/ JEE Score card, Leaving Certificate, Domicile/ Birth Certificate and Aadhar Card. Form needs to be submitted in hardcopy before the last date scheduled by the Institute.
What Is the Admission Process for Institute Level Quota At APSIT?
The candidate shall REGISTER ONLINE on the Institute website
https://www.apsit.edu.in/
for receiving updates of institute level admission. Registration and Enrollment on the web portal of State Common Entrance Test Cell, Govt. of Maharashtra is also MANDATORY.
How many application forms can one fill while applying to various Courses?
Only one application for all interested courses.
What is the Medium of Instruction?
Medium of Instruction is
English
.
What Courses are offered in the Institute?
We offer 6 courses.
Courses Offer
.
What are the documents required at the time of Admission?
List of Documents required at the admission are
Click Here
.
Do the Candidate need to submit all the Original Documents Required at the time of Admission?
Yes, Candidate need to submit all the Original Documents required at the time of Admission.
What are the Criteria for Jain Minority candidate admission at APSIT?
Candidate must be Domiciled in the Maharashtra state. Candidate shall Belong to a Jain Religious Minority Community in the Maharashtra state and minority status shall he mentioned on School leaving certificate.
Whether admission through Institute quota requires donation?
No. College don’t accept any donations, only approved fees is to be paid by the students.
What is the Admission Fee for Academic Year 2025-26?
Admission Fee for academic Year 2025-26 is Rs. 138999/- which includes Rs.136000/- approved by FRA + University and Exam fees.
Will there be any Increase in the Fees in Subsequent Years?
No. The Fees paid during First Year Admission will be the same for entire duration of the course i.e. 4 years.
Is there any difference in fees structure for the candidate who is taking admissions through INSTITUTE QUOTA and CAP?
Fees structure remains same for the students taking admission through CAP or Institute Quota. However, only students admitted through CAP are eligible for scholarship schemes applicable to SC, ST, OBC, SEBC, SBC, DT, NT and EBC offered by Government of Maharashtra.
What is the Fee Structure for the students belonging to SC/ST/SBC/DT/NT/OBC/SEBC category taking into account the scholarship offered by Government of Maharashtra?
Development fees is to be paid by student for all categories except SC and ST category.
No Tuition fees required to be paid by SC / ST /OBC FEMALE / SEBC FEMALE / NT / DT / SBC/ VJ / EBC FEMALE candidates. 100 % tuition fees is paid by Government of Maharashtra as scholarship (Require Valid documents & Scholarship Form is to be filled and submitted in time).
50% of tuition fees shall be paid by OBC MALE / SEBC MALE / EBC MALE candidate. Remaining 50 % of tuition fees is paid by Government of Maharashtra as scholarship (Require Valid documents & Scholarship Form is to be filled and submitted in time).
CLICK HERE FOR FEE STRUCTURE 2025-26
Does the candidate need to pay full fee at the time of Admission?
Yes, Candidate need to pay full fee at the time of Admission.
What are the modes of Payment?
Payment needs to be made by UPI, Debit Card, Credit Card, Netbanking, or Demand Draft.
Why do the student need to fill the Scholarship Form?
The student needs to fill the scholarship form if wants to avail fee benefit by Government of Maharashtra. If the Candidate fails to fill the Scholarship form in time than has to pay the full fee to the Institute.
Where is Institute Level Merit list and Schedule is displayed on Website?
Institute Level Merit list and Schedule is displayed on the Front page of our Website as well as on the Admission Notification Page (
Click Here
)
Where do the Student have to pay the Fees of the Institute?
Students have to pay the Fee on
APSIT PAYMENT PORTAL
.
Search
Departments:
Computer Engineering
Civil Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
CSE AI and ML
CSE Data Science
Information Technology
Placement News!!!
Aurionpro Placement Drive
Capgemini Placement Drive
Exceller Tech Placement Drive
DSW Placement Drive
Paramatrix Placement Drive
SnapWorld Placement Drive
Exceller Placement Drive
Virtusa Placement Drive
Contact Info
Address: Survey No. 12, 13
Opp. Hypercity Mall, Kasarvadavali,
Ghodbunder Road, Thane West,
Thane, Maharashtra 400615
Phone: 022-25973737
[email protected]
Mobile: 7738305400 / 7738940600
Exam (for exam/transcripts related queries contact:
[email protected]
,
[email protected]
)
Powered by
Drupal
.
By continuing past this page, you agree to our Terms of Service, Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy and Content Policies. All trademarks are properties of their respective owners.
© APSIT. All rights reserved.