Admission Criteria | APSIT
Skip to main content
Convocation Ceremony @APSIT
Our Recruiters
Capgemini Placed Students of 2025 Batch
LTI Mind Tree Placed Students
APSIT: Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE), Maharashtra-Goa has awarded. APSIT "The Best Engineering College" and "Best Principal"
AurionPro Placed Students
Important Information:
Eligibility, Admission, Cancellation and Refund as per norms laid down by Directorate of Technical Education, Government of Maharashtra / University of Mumbai applicable for the current academic year.
Fees as approved by Fee Regulating Authority (FRA), Government of Maharashtra for the academic year + Examination, University.. fees as applicable.
Admission eligibility criteria – Under Graduate - First Year and Under Graduate - Direct Second Year
1. First year degree courses in Engineering and Technology
(i) Candidate should be an Indian National
(ii) Passed HSC or its equivalent examination with Physics and Mathematics as compulsory subjects along with one of the Chemistry or Biotechnology or Biology or Technical or Vocational Subjects obtaining at least 45% marks (at least 40% marks, in case of Backward class categories and persons with Disability candidates belonging to Maharashtra State only) in the above subjects taken together; and obtained score in CET conducted by the Competent Authority
OR
(ii) Passed Diploma in Engineering and Technology and obtained at least 45% marks (at least 40% marks, in case of Backward class categories and persons with Disability candidates belonging to Maharashtra State only)
OR
(ii) Passed B.Sc. Degree from a Recognized University as defined by UGC and obtained at least 50% marks (at least 45% marks, in case of Backward class categories and persons with Disability candidates belonging to Maharashtra State only)
2. Direct 2 Year (Lateral Entry)
(i) The Candidate should be an Indian National;
(ii) Passed Diploma Course in Engineering and Technology with at least 45% marks (40% marks in case of candidates of backward class categories and Persons with Disability belonging to Maharashtra State only) in appropriate branch of Engineering and Technology from an All India Council for Technical Education or Central or State Government approved Institution or its equivalent;
OR
(ii) Passed B.Sc. Degree from a University Grants Commission (UGC) or Association of Indian Universities recognized University with at least 45% marks (40% in case of candidates of Backward class categories and Persons with Disability belonging to Maharashtra State only) and passed HSC with Mathematics as a subject.
Provided that students belonging to this category shall clear the subjects of Engineering Graphics/ Engineering Drawing and Engineering Mechanics of the first year Engineering Program along with second year subjects.
Contact Info
Address: Survey No. 12, 13
Opp. Hypercity Mall, Kasarvadavali,
Ghodbunder Road, Thane West,
Thane, Maharashtra 400615
Phone: 022-25973737
[email protected]
Mobile: 7738305400 / 7738940600
Exam (for exam/transcripts related queries contact:
[email protected]
,
[email protected]
)