Admission Notification | APSIT
Skip to main content
Convocation Ceremony @APSIT
Our Recruiters
Capgemini Placed Students of 2025 Batch
LTI Mind Tree Placed Students
APSIT: Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE), Maharashtra-Goa has awarded. APSIT "The Best Engineering College" and "Best Principal"
AurionPro Placed Students
First Year Engineering Admissions @ APSIT
APSIT offers admissions through two channels: 10% through institute-level admissions and the remaining 90% through the Centralized Admission Process (CAP) conducted by the Government of Maharashtra.
To apply for Institute level Seats(ILS) at APSIT, follow these steps:
The Hardcopy application form is to be collected from the college.
Submit the completed form along with mandatory documents in person to the institute till date of allotment of final CAP Round.
The college will publish a merit list on its website after the deadline.
Students selected in the merit list will receive notification about the admission round at the institute.
On the admission day, students must be present in person with their original documents and pay the required fees.
It is mandatory to register for CAP through the FC centers. Students should obtain the DTE registration number when submitting the application form.
Important Links:
Institute Admission Brochure
Click Here
Application Form
Available in College
Admission Advertisement
Click Here
Admission Documents
Click Here
Admission Criteria
Click Here
Frequently Asked Questions
Click Here
ILS Admission Instructions
Click Here
ILS Admission Schedule & Fee Structure
Click Here
FE ILS Merit List
Click Here
FE ACAP Admission Schedule & Fee Structure
Click Here
FE ACAP Provisional Merit List
MHT CET
|
JEE
DSE ACAP Admission Schedule & Fee Structure
Click Here
DSE ACAP Provisional Merit List
Will be available soon!!
Contact Info
Address: Survey No. 12, 13
Opp. Hypercity Mall, Kasarvadavali,
Ghodbunder Road, Thane West,
Thane, Maharashtra 400615
Phone: 022-25973737
[email protected]
Mobile: 7738305400 / 7738940600
Exam (for exam/transcripts related queries contact:
[email protected]
,
[email protected]
)