National Service Scheme | APSIT
Skip to main content
Toggle navigation
Parshvanath Charitable Trust's A. P. Shah Institute of Technology
(Religious Jain Minority Institute, Affiliated to University of Mumbai, Approved by AICTE Delhi & DTE)
Survey no 12, 13, Opp. Hypercity Mall, Kasarvadavali, Ghodbunder Road, Thane (W) 400 615, Maharashtra. Mob: 7738305400
Main navigation
Home
About
About
Approvals
Institutional Development Plan
APSIT-NIRF DATA
NBA Accreditation
Mandatory Disclosure
Balance Sheet
Admin
Governing Body
Principal
Controller of Examination
Board of Management
Academic Council
Board of Studies
Finance Committee
Internal Complaint Committee
Student Grievance Redressal Committee(SGRC)
Academic Leadership
Academics
Details of Academic Programs
Academic Calendar
Statutes/Ordinances pertaining to Academics/Examinations
Departments
AI and ML
Data Science
Computer  Engineering
Civil Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Information Technology
Vision and Mission
Faculty profile
Activities
Laboratories
Student Committee
Humanities and Applied Sciences
Library
Library Policy
Library Services
Rules for Students
Academic Collaborations
Mechanical  Engineering
Computer Engineering/IT/ EXTC
Civil Engineering
Syllabus
Computer Engineering
Information Technology
CSE AI & ML
CSE Data Science
Honors & Minor Degree
Admissions
Prospectus
Admission process and guidelines
Fee Refund Policy
Institute Brochure 2025-26
Admission Criteria
Fee Structure 2025-26
Admission FAQ's
Research
Entrepreneurship Development Cell
Research & Development
IPR
Start-Up policy
Central Facilities
Student Life
Sports Facilities
National Service Scheme (NSS)
Placements
About us
Placement Record
Training and Placement Officer
Student Grievance Redressal Committee(SGRC)
Health Facilities
Internal Complaint Committee
Anti-Ragging Cell
Facilities for differently-abled
Academic Initiatives
Attendance Reward Scheme
E-Learning Platform
NPTEL Local Chapter
IIT Bombay Super Resource Center
Xpression Club
Free GATE/GRE*/CAT* Coaching
Aptitude Training
Project Based Learning (PBL)
The MAC Club
Foreign Language Courses
ICASTe 2k19 Conference
Mentoring
Institution's Innovation Council - IIC
Counselling
Counselor
FAQ's
Industry Institute Interaction Cell
Exalt : Technical Fest
Student Council
Women Development Cell
Equal Opportunity Cell - APSIT
Socio-Economically Disadvantaged Groups Cell (SEDG)
Alumni
Alumni Association with details
Information
Announcements
Circulars & Notices
Newsletters
Job Openings
Gallery
Photos
Contacts
Convocation Ceremony @APSIT
Our Recruiters
Capgemini Placed Students of 2025 Batch
LTI Mind Tree Placed Students
APSIT: Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE), Maharashtra-Goa has awarded. APSIT "The Best Engineering College" and "Best Principal"
AurionPro Placed Students
A. P. SHAH INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY NSS UNIT
NSS is a one of its kind initiative taken jointly by the colleges across the country. Its motto is "Not Me But You" which ensures that college students participate in the well being and social welfare of the community and it also aims at enhancing their personalities. Through NSS, students are encouraged to participate in activities that will shape them into more caring, informed and well-groomed individuals.
‘NOT ME BUT YOU’
Objectives of NSS
NSS unit of A. P. Shah Institute of Technology started in 2019 with the strength of 50 student volunteers. The main objective of NSS unit is to create social awareness & to give an opportunity to students to work with the community.
The activities of the unit are observed by the college level committee. The student volunteers are given full freedom to plan & implement social activities which help them to develop leadership qualities amongst themselves. The volunteers are required to put in at least 120 hours of Social work in an academic year in various projects.
Our NSS unit has conducted a campaign against the use of plastic from 22nd September, to 2nd October 2019. Our purpose is to introduce the concept of community service while learning which will help them to become responsible citizens.
Our Unit will organize winter camp in rural area; it is felt that their interaction with the common villagers is a good opportunity to give volunteers real experience of the hardships of rural life. Our primarily responsibility is to contribute to the welfare of the village. During the camp our volunteers will conduct activities like surveying, planting trees, ground water conservation, promotion of general cleanliness and personal hygiene among children and women. Our volunteers will teach English, use of computer, mathematics, general knowledge & conservation of environment to the village school.
NSS Activity
Tree Plantation:
NSS Unit at APSIT organised Tree Plantation Drive on 6 September 2024 at Khnadoba Mandir hills at Kasarvadavali. NSS volunteers along with NSS PO participate din the plantation drive. Total 55 saplings were planted & the responsibility of taking care of saplings is given to volunteers & college staff who stays nearby Kasarvadavali village.
NSS APSIT Volunteers participated in an activity of collecting Nirmalya during the Ganpati Festival at Thane Talao Pali. Male & Female volunteers helped Thane Municipal Corporation in collection of Nirmalya. Rotary Club Thane provided bags, hand gloves to collect Nirmalya. Some volunteers assisted in maintain traffic & crowed control at Ganpati Visarjan 2024.
Bhajan sandhya and rally at gateway of India on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti 2 October 2024. Total 21 volunteers from APSIT Thane participated in the event. NSS Volunteers marched from CST station to Gateway of India and showed placards to spread the message of non-violence & peace of Mahatma Gandhiji.
NSS UNIT APSIT planned guest lecture of NSS area coordinator Prof. Renu Verma on 11/12/2024 for upcoming NSS special Camp activities. Do’s & don’ts at NSS Special Camp and orientation of new volunteers. Prof Verma shared all details regarding planning of events and execution of it. She focussed on documentation part of it and gave detailed presentation on each day schedule.
NSS volunteers of APSIT supported Paryavaran Film Festival conducted at Dr. Kashinath Ghanekar Natyagruha on 3rd & 4th September 2024. It was a film festival for school children around Thane schools. NSS volunteers & core team assisted organizers Paryavaran Dakshata Mandal in planning & maintaining discipline among school children at entry & exit point and assisted in prize distribution.
NSS volunteers of A. P. Shah Institute of Technology, assisted Karvy Festival which was organised on the occasion of ‘National Wildlife Week’ & Nisargmela 2024. Paryavaran Dakshata Mandal Thane, Sanjay Gandhi National Park, Rotary Club Hiranandani Estate & Enviro Vigil organizedNisarg Mela 2024, Karvy Festival at Manpada Nature Center Thane. Under this event total 18 Various Medium (language)Schools across Thane had participated in following events. 1. Wild life photography 2. Selfie with wild flower, 3. Plant Identification, 4. Cloth Bag Painting, 5. Nature Treasure Hunt.
Search
Departments:
Computer Engineering
Civil Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
CSE AI and ML
CSE Data Science
Information Technology
Placement News!!!
Aurionpro Placement Drive
Capgemini Placement Drive
Exceller Tech Placement Drive
DSW Placement Drive
Paramatrix Placement Drive
SnapWorld Placement Drive
Exceller Placement Drive
Virtusa Placement Drive
Contact Info
Address: Survey No. 12, 13
Opp. Hypercity Mall, Kasarvadavali,
Ghodbunder Road, Thane West,
Thane, Maharashtra 400615
Phone: 022-25973737
[email protected]
Mobile: 7738305400 / 7738940600
Exam (for exam/transcripts related queries contact:
[email protected]
,
[email protected]
)
Powered by
Drupal
.
By continuing past this page, you agree to our Terms of Service, Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy and Content Policies. All trademarks are properties of their respective owners.
© APSIT. All rights reserved.