Civil Engineering | APSIT
Skip to main content
Toggle navigation
Parshvanath Charitable Trust's A. P. Shah Institute of Technology
(Religious Jain Minority Institute, Affiliated to University of Mumbai, Approved by AICTE Delhi & DTE)
Survey no 12, 13, Opp. Hypercity Mall, Kasarvadavali, Ghodbunder Road, Thane (W) 400 615, Maharashtra. Mob: 7738305400
Main navigation
Home
About
About
Approvals
Institutional Development Plan
APSIT-NIRF DATA
NBA Accreditation
Mandatory Disclosure
Balance Sheet
Admin
Governing Body
Principal
Controller of Examination
Board of Management
Academic Council
Board of Studies
Finance Committee
Internal Complaint Committee
Student Grievance Redressal Committee(SGRC)
Academic Leadership
Academics
Details of Academic Programs
Academic Calendar
Statutes/Ordinances pertaining to Academics/Examinations
Departments
AI and ML
Data Science
Computer  Engineering
Civil Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Information Technology
Vision and Mission
Faculty profile
Activities
Laboratories
Student Committee
Humanities and Applied Sciences
Library
Library Policy
Library Services
Rules for Students
Academic Collaborations
Mechanical  Engineering
Computer Engineering/IT/ EXTC
Civil Engineering
Syllabus
Computer Engineering
Information Technology
CSE AI & ML
CSE Data Science
Honors & Minor Degree
Admissions
Prospectus
Admission process and guidelines
Fee Refund Policy
Institute Brochure 2025-26
Admission Criteria
Fee Structure 2025-26
Admission FAQ's
Research
Entrepreneurship Development Cell
Research & Development
IPR
Start-Up policy
Central Facilities
Student Life
Sports Facilities
National Service Scheme (NSS)
Placements
About us
Placement Record
Training and Placement Officer
Student Grievance Redressal Committee(SGRC)
Health Facilities
Internal Complaint Committee
Anti-Ragging Cell
Facilities for differently-abled
Academic Initiatives
Attendance Reward Scheme
E-Learning Platform
NPTEL Local Chapter
IIT Bombay Super Resource Center
Xpression Club
Free GATE/GRE*/CAT* Coaching
Aptitude Training
Project Based Learning (PBL)
The MAC Club
Foreign Language Courses
ICASTe 2k19 Conference
Mentoring
Institution's Innovation Council - IIC
Counselling
Counselor
FAQ's
Industry Institute Interaction Cell
Exalt : Technical Fest
Student Council
Women Development Cell
Equal Opportunity Cell - APSIT
Socio-Economically Disadvantaged Groups Cell (SEDG)
Alumni
Alumni Association with details
Information
Announcements
Circulars & Notices
Newsletters
Job Openings
Gallery
Photos
Contacts
Our Recruiters
List of Faculties
About the Civil Engineering Department:
ISTE Approved Faculty Development Programme on: "Design and Development of AI-ML Models for Beginners" with a focus on applications in core engineering branches and applied sciences
Welcome to the Department of Civil Engineering at APSIT.
Department of Civil Engineering reflects the importance and legacy of the discipline. The Civil Engineering is the basic branch of Engineering. The department was established in 2014 with an intake capacity of 60 which was raised to 120 since 2016. The state-of-the-art facilities and advanced computational resources are available in the department for integrating education and research. Students are exposed to rigorous appraisals to create proficient and ethically strong technocrats.
The department has experienced and highly qualified faculty members to provide an excellent environment for academics and research. The laboratories are equipped with modern equipment's which enable students to learn the applications of the fundamentals to solve civil engineering problems. The department offers Project Based Learning (PBL) and Value Added Programmes (VAP) to make the students employable. The computational laboratory is fully ready with more than 50 licensed software of every domain under the umbrella of civil engineering. This facility serves the budding engineers to fulfil the current soft-skill requirements of the industry and higher education. Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) student chapter launched in the department guides the students towards the environment and sustainability through civil engineering activities.
The department also focuses on 360
o
development of students along with their academics. Small groups of students are allotted a faculty mentor, who looks after problems faced, challenges if any and the overall development of the students throughout the academic period. Various in-house activities are organized for the students like communication skill development, EQ enhancement sessions, counselling, sports and cultural activities. For this purpose, the students have dedicated spaces for in-door and out-door sports, music, dance, debating etc. The department has Civil Engineering Students’ Association (CESA) which is handled by the students and for the students.  The department enhances technical skills and improves the overall personality of students to enable them in facing future challenges.
Vision:
"Civil Engineering department strives to produce globally adaptive professionals to ensure sustainable growth of society”
Mission:
M1: To develop state-of–the-art facilities and advanced computational resources to integrate education and research.
M2: To create proficient and ethically strong technocrats by exposing them to rigorous appraisals to make them realise, define and select their key competencies
M3: To bridge the academic and industrial gap by imparting training through sound and conceptual foundation and ample field exposure.
Search
Useful Links:
About Department
Vision & Mission
PO, PEO & PSO
Faculty
Collaborations
Clubs in Department
Placement Details
Result Analysis
Curriculum & Syllabus
Laboratories
Innovative Teaching and Learning Techniques
Workshop & Events
Professional Bodies
Civil Engineering Student Association
Department Achievements
Student Achievements
Student Internships
Timetable
Academic Calendar
Department Magazine
Industrial Visits
Social Media
Scope and careers in Civil Engineering
Students Testimonials
Departments:
Computer Engineering
Civil Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
CSE AI and ML
CSE Data Science
Information Technology
Placement News!!!
Aurionpro Placement Drive
Capgemini Placement Drive
Exceller Tech Placement Drive
DSW Placement Drive
Paramatrix Placement Drive
SnapWorld Placement Drive
Exceller Placement Drive
Virtusa Placement Drive
Contact Info
Address: Survey No. 12, 13
Opp. Hypercity Mall, Kasarvadavali,
Ghodbunder Road, Thane West,
Thane, Maharashtra 400615
Phone: 022-25973737
[email protected]
Mobile: 7738305400 / 7738940600
Exam (for exam/transcripts related queries contact:
[email protected]
,
[email protected]
)
Powered by
Drupal
.
By continuing past this page, you agree to our Terms of Service, Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy and Content Policies. All trademarks are properties of their respective owners.
© APSIT. All rights reserved.