 
Name of the Alumni: Kedar Milind Athavale  
(MTech Construction Management (VJTI)) 
Batch :2018-19 
Present Employer :BURNS & MCDONNELL 
 
Present Designation:Estimator T&D (Construction Design Build) 
Majorly Responsible for preparation of detailed pre- construction estimates, bids, 
takeoffs, for ongoing and upcoming T&D Projects of Burns Mcdonnell in United States. 
 
Previous Organization: TATA POWER (Feb 2022- Jan 2025) 
 
Photo of Alumni :  
Achievements: 
TATA POWER: 
1. Certificate of Appreciation in August 2023, October 2024 for extra-ordinary 
performance in execution and completion of critical civil activities on time with 
maintaining highest safety standards at TATA Power 
2. Best Delta Award at Generation Cluster level (TATA POWER) for implementing use 
of glass fiber-based reinforcement in non-structural works for substation maintenance  
3. Represented TATA Power Company’s Bottom Ash Tetrapod Project at National 
Level conference NCQC (National Conference for Quality Concepts) in year 2022 and 
won the Par Excellence Award. 
4.  Part of project in which we designed and executed civil works in making first of its kind 
VR & 4D (Virtual Reality and 4 Dimensional) Safety Studio at TATA Power or rather first 
one in the power industry which contains different modules in VR & 4D specifically for 
safety trainings. 
5. Received Safety Maestro Award from TATA Power for safe execution of civil works 
in substations. 
6. Presented a paper titled “Development of a convolutional neural network (CNN) 
for crack detection in RCC structure” in International Conference on Recent Advances in 

Civil Engineering for Sustainable Development (RACESD-2021) organized by Maulana 
Azad National Institute of Technology (MANIT), Bhopal. 
 
 
 
 
 
Name of Alumni  :Abhijit Musale  
Batch :2017-18 
Present Employer :Afcons Infrastructure ltd  
Present Designation:Assistant Manager Qs& Billing 
 
Photo of Alumni :  
Success Story :Worked with renowned companies at various posts 
Larsen & Toubro ltd- 
Position -Senior Engineer (Civil) 
Project - 
A)Dry Dock Project at Kochi 
B)Nuclear Power plant project at kudumkulam 
 
3.DVP Infra projects Pvt ltd 
Position -junior Engineer (civil-marine) 
Project - 
A) waterfront development at nagalabandar Thane 
B)Ro-Ro jetty at manori malad 
 
4.MEP infrastructure Ltd- 
Position -Junior Engineer 
A) Maintenance and Audit of Rajiv Gandhi sea link . 
 
5.Logic Geotech & Construction - 
Position - junior engineer 
Project - Geotechnical Investigation of Mumbai metro line  

 
 
 
 
 
 
Name of Alumni:Rohit Jadhav  
1) Specialization in Hydrography  
Completed Hydrography course from National Institute Of Hydrography, Goa. 
2) M.Tech Structural Engineering - VJTI, Mumbai. 
 
 
Batch :2017-2018 
 
Present Employer :Home Department, port and Transport, Maharashtra Maritime Board, 
Mumbai 
 
Present Designation:Assistant Engineer Grade II 
 
● Photo of Alumni :  
Success Story : Join Maharashtra Maritime Board, in 06 th of August 2018 as a Junior 
Engineer, In Palghar District , completed various water transport project such as Ro-Ro 
pile jetty, Road projects, light House in open sea, etc.  
After 3 years of service got promoted in 04th of August 2021 as a Assistant Engineer 
Grade II in Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg district. 
presently Working in coastal area of Maharashtra. 

 
 
 
 
Name of Student :Name of Alumni: Utkarsh Shukla 
Batch :2018-19 
Present Employer :UNIQUO 
 
Present Designation:Business Development Manager (North India) 
 
Photo of Alumni :  
Success Story :After completing engineering in 2019, joined UNIQUO - family business 
as a trainee engineer in Mumbai. Being a family run business, got multiple opportunities 
in different fields related to civil engineering such as Testing, Inspections, Certifications 
and Audits. 
Started with technical audits in residential buildings and complexes, gradually did 
structural audits for Indian Railways and Safety audits for Mumbai Metropolitan Region 
Development Authority (MMRDA). 
Got certified as a Chartered Engineer from Instituion of Engineers India (IEI).  
Slowly and steadily led to the growth of business in Mumbai region in. Got promoted to 
Business Development Executive within a year of joining the company. 
Got to explore business in North India. Helped setting up the business in north, formed a 
team and started from scratch, currently serving 6 states of north India (DELHI, UP, 
BIHAR, MP, HARYANA, MP).  
Completed many certifications (govt Certifications as well as private).  
Completed M.Tech (structures) parallely.  
Completed two 1-Year Diplomas in 2023 and 2025 respectively (ADIS, ADEE).  
 

Got certified as a Road Safety Auditor (RSA) from the Ministry of Road, Transport and 
Highways (MoRTH) - Govt of India (scored 3rd rank in the entire batch, and became the 
youngest one to be certified).  
 
Conducted multiple Training and Audits for Mumbai Metro, Pune Metro, Surat Metro, 
Ahmedabad Metro, Noida Airport (Jewar), Navi Mumbai International Airport (NMIAL), 
etc. In residential projects, did 150+ trainings for companies like Lodha, L&T, Oberoi, 
Runwal, Shapoorji, etc. 
 
Completed my International Certification for Scaffold Inspector and got certified as a 
Scaffold Trainer from Scaffold Training Institute- Texas (USA).  
Completed my Lead Auditor Certification in OSHA 45001:2018 from TUV NORD. 
 
Achievement emphasis: 
1. Youngest certified Road Safety Auditor from Minsitry of Road, Transport and 
Highways. 
2. Youngest HSE trainer to be certified by Gujarat Metro Rail Corporational Limited 
(GMRCL). 
3. Giving our contribution towards the making of Shri Ram Janmabhumi Teerthkshetra in 
Ayodhya. 
4. Worked on 8+ airport project in India. 
5. Working on 8 metro projects in India. 
6. Set up offices in 8 states across India (DELHI, UP, Bihar, MP, Gujarat, Maharashtra, 
Karnataka, Tamil Nadu). 
7. Team strength grew from 42 to 85 in last 4 years.  
8. Business touched an annual revenue of 10cr in last financial year. 
9. Published papers in International journals during MTech thesis. 
10. Conducted 3 industry related project during 1-year Diploma courses. 
11. Started our own material Testing Laboratory in Ambarnath MIDC. 
12. Company Received recognitions from LODHA, Runwal,  L&T, SNB and many others 
for significant contributions to the industry. 
13. Completed 10+ industry Certifications in last 3 years. 
 
 
 
Name of Alumni: Chaitanya Manish Patel 
 
Batch: 2021-22  
 
Present Employer: S Kumar Homes Pvt Ltd. 
 
Present Designation: Project Engineer  
 
Success Story Details: 
 
1)Success Story Summary: Started with the iconic project of Panvel Municipal 
corporation head office building. Where got to learned from surveying to field execution 
to management of the project with each micro details.  
 
3)Achievements Emphasis:  
Got to be head surveyor for laying out of the PMC head office building in 2022. 
Then promoted to junior billing engineer and got to learn everything about bbs and how 
to prepare RA bills for Item rate contracts in 2023 to 2024.  
Currently working as a project engineer in 2025. 
Over a span of around 3 years I have experienced all round development right from 
surveying, execution of project on site and billing process for such government projects 
its procedure and documentation requirements. And currently managing the project for 
rcc and finishing items. 
 
● Photo of Alumni :  
 
Name of Student :Nidhi Anchan  
Batch :2020-21 

1. Photo of Alumni :  
Success Story :GATE QUALIFIED (AIR 271) 
 
Ph.D. in Energy, Environmental and Chemical Engineering  
Washington University in Saint Louis, Missouri  (August 2024 - Present) 
 
 
Master of Science by Research in Environmental Engineering  
Indian Institute of Technology Madras, Chennai  
 
Courses: Environmental Quality Monitoring and Analysis, Contaminant Transport Model, 
Air pollution and Control Engineering, Understanding climate dynamics and its 
mysteries 
 
Name of Student :Vishal Mali  
Batch :2018-19 
Present Employer :Maharashtra Government  (PWD) 
Present Designation:Civil Engineering Assistant 

Photo of Alumni :  
 
 
Name of Student : Mayur Rokade  
Batch :2021-22 
Present Employer :Maharashtra Government ,Water Resources Department   
Present Designation: Civil Engineering Assistant. 
Photo of Alumni :  
 
 

 
Name of Student :Suyash Padhye  
Batch :2018-19 
Photo of Alumni :  
Success Story :Pursuing PhD - Information Credibility, Risk Management, 
Sustainable Overseas Infrastructure Development Finance 
Purdue University 
 
 
Name of Alumni  :Raj Joshi  
Batch :2020-21 
Present Employer :EXL  
Present Designation:Analyst  

Photo of Alumni :  
Success Story :GATE QUALIFIED   
M.Tech (Environmental Engineering and Management )  
IIT Kharagpur  
 
Worked under Prof. M. R. Ravi, Department of Mechanical Engineering on project 
titled ‘Development of Numerical Model for analysis of Biomass based Pottery 
Furnace’. Tried various Numerical Methods using Finite Difference approach to 
model a natural draft furnace. Analysis done by writing programs in 
MATLAB.(Under the Academies Summer Research Fellow-IIT(Delhi) 
 
 
 
Name of Alumni :Madhur Khade  
Batch :2017-18 
Present Employer : Lakeside engineers, Wisconsin, USA 
Present Designation:Project Engineer  

Photo of Alumni :  
Success Story : Masters - Clemson university, South Carolina,  
USA - construction science and management- graduation 2021 
 
 
 
Name of Alumni: Vibhavari Jadhav 
Batch: 2017-2018 
Present Employer: Tata projects ltd 
Present Designation: Deputy manager- Quality Control 
1)Success Story Summary: 
Got campus placement in J kumar at mumbai metro project and I was appointed as 
JR Engineer in tunnels.   
Later , offered Assistant Manager role at Tata Projects Ltd for Chennai metro project.  
For 2 years  a part of chennai metro project.  

Promoted as Deputy Manager.  
Currently I am working at BDD chawl redevelopment project, worli. The BDD 
redevelopment project is one of the largest rehab project in India.  
Photo of Alumni :  
 
 
Name of Alumni:Kumar Prabhakar Gudur  
Batch :2021-22 
Photo of Alumni :  
Success Story :GATE Qualifed -2022 

Pursuing M.Tech (IIT -Madras) in Ocean Structures 
 
 
 
 
Name of Student :Chaintany Barkade  
Batch :2020-21 
Present Employer :Senior Engineer  
Present Designation:L&T Hydrocarbon Engineering Limited! 
 
Photo of Alumni :  
Success Story :GATE QUALIFIED 
Pursued Master of Technology - MTech, Structural dynamics and Earthquake 
engineering 
Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology. 
 

