       
 
 
Entrepreneurship Development Cell 
 Vision: 
Nurture budding talents and guide them to become globally competent entrepreneurs, by propelling them to 
gain leadership qualities and to make an impact individually. 
 Mission: 
Install passion and spirit among aspiring students to pursue entrepreneurship. 
 Long Term Goals (5 Years): 
Motivate students to develop their own startup. 
Develop business incubators. 
Create corpus fund to seed ventures. 
 Short Term Goals (2 Years): 
To provide a platform for interaction with entrepreneurs. 
Impart entrepreneurial education/skills amongst students through various trainings and exercise. 
Arrange vibrant interaction with organizations promoting the cause of entrepreneurship. 
 
 Objectives of Entrepreneurship Development Cell (EDC) 
To act as an institutional mechanism for providing various services including information to budding student 
entrepreneurs. 
To create Entrepreneurial culture in the Institution and to motivate to the students to start their own business.  
To foster better linkages between the Institution, Industries and R&D institutions in the region and other related 
organizations engaged in promoting Small & Medium Enterprises (SMEs) including NGOs and other 
Voluntary Organisations. 
To catalyse and promote development of APSIT based Enterprises and promote employment opportunities. 
To respond effectively to the emerging challenges and opportunities both at national and international level 
relating to SMEs and Micro Enterprises. 
 
 
 

 Entrepreneurship Development Cell Committee Management 
 
Table 9.6.2: Details of Entrepreneurship Development Cell committee members 
 
    
NAME 
  
DESIGNATION 
  
POSITION 
 
 Sr. No 
  
       
            
 1   Dr. Uttam Kolekar   Principal   Chairman   
2  Prof. A. M. Deshpande   Dean Academics   Member  
            
 3   Dr. Sameer Nanivadekar   Dean Administration   Member   
4  Mr. Mahesh Pawaskar   Ass. Prof. (EXTC)   Member  
 5   Mr. Sunil Sushir   Ass. Prof. (IT)   Member   
6  Mrs. Preeti Kalburgi   Asst. Prof. (Civil)   Member  
          
 7   Mr. Nikhil Khatekar   Asst. Prof. (Mech)   Member   
8  Mr. Sanjay Naikwade   Asst. Prof.-(Mech)   In-charge EDC  
          
 
 
 Effectiveness of EDC cell 
 
Inauguration of Entrepreneurship Development Cell and MOU with Deshpande Foundation 
on 6th August 2018. 
 
 
 
1) Two days workshop on “Entrepreneurship Skills and Leadership Development” by Mr 
Niranjan Demanna and Mr. Yuvraj Patil from Deshpande Foundation, on 22nd and 23rd Dec. 
2018 
 
 

2) One day Workshop on “Business Analysis for Start-up” by Mr. Ram Singh from MNC 
Bank on 2nd April 2019. 
 

