 
 
  PARSHVANATH CHARITABLE TRUST'S 
A. P. SHAH INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 
(Approved by AICTE New Delhi & Govt. of Maharashtra, Affiliated to University of Mumbai) 
(Religious Jain Minority Institution)  
 
EXAMINATION SECTION 
Important instructions/guidelines for students   
1)  Eligibility criteria  for admission from FE to SE, SE to TE, or TE to BE.    
The candidate admitted to SE should have passed in all subjects in FE 
examination or should have not failed in more than 5 heads of 
semester end exam (theory) passing in semester- I & II taken together.  
And 
Candidate should not have failed not more than 8 heads of passing of 
which not more than 5 shall be in end semester examination of 
semester I & II taken together. 
For more clarity refer following table. 
Failed in not 
more than 
no. of heads 
in IA/OR/PR 
Failed in not 
more than no. 
of heads in end 
semester exam.  
Failed in not 
more than total 
heads of 
passing 
 
 
 
Remarks 
3 5 8 Eligible 
4 4 8 Eligible 
5 3 8 Eligible 
6 2 8 Eligible 
7 1 8 Eligible 
8 0 8 Eligible 
2 6 8 Not Eligible 
1 7 8 Not Eligible 
0 8 8 Not Eligible 
                           NOTE: -  FOR      SE TO TE  FE should be PASS &   
                               FOR     TE TO BE  SE should be PASS 
 
 
2)  For sem – III to VI  exam form, Revaluation form and photocopy 
forms will be accepted through online process only. 
3)  The link for same is made available on  moodle . 
4)  It is mandatory for all students to submit Acknowledgment copy of 
exam form, revaluation form and photocopy form to exam section.  
5)  Attach latest examination marksheet along with the 
acknowledgement. 
6)  
SC/ST/DT/NT/ & SBC  Students need to attach caste & validity 
certificates. 
7)   To avail EBC  facility OBC  students should submit income proof (for 
only revaluation & photocopy & not for examination form) 
8)  Date of photocopy & revaluation form submission is within 2 
working days  after the date of declaration of result.  
9)  Date of exam form submission is within 5 working days  after date 
of announcement/notice  
10)  Fees demand will be generated later & will be conveyed to 
students. 
11)  For any query related to result/marksheet, report to exam 
section within 3 working days in writing. 
12)  For university exam (sem-I, II, VII & VIII) form submission, 
announcement/notice will be displayed according to university 
circular.   
13)  For university exam (sem-I, II, VII & VIII) form submission, the link is 
available on university web site link  mu.ac.in   exam & result  
examination    follow the instruction given on page. 
 
