Fee Refund Policy | APSIT
Skip to main content
Convocation Ceremony @APSIT
Our Recruiters
Capgemini Placed Students of 2025 Batch
LTI Mind Tree Placed Students
APSIT: Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE), Maharashtra-Goa has awarded. APSIT "The Best Engineering College" and "Best Principal"
AurionPro Placed Students
FE and DSE Admission Fee Refund Policy as per Information Brochure for Admission to Under Graduate and Post Graduate Technical Courses (2024-25)
Candidates wishing to cancel their admission must apply online and submit a duly signed copy of the system-generated cancellation application to the Institute. Once the online request is submitted, the admission will be considered cancelled and the seat will be made available for further allotment. The Institute will treat the online request as final and will refund the entire fees after deducting Cancellation charge of ₹1,000.
All original documents submitted will be returned immediately after receiving the signed cancellation form and application.
Please note that cancellations made after 5:00 p.m. on the cut-off date set by the Competent Authority will not be eligible for a fee refund, except for the Security Deposit and Caution Money. After the cut-off date, the online cancellation link will be deactivated, and candidates must apply directly to the Institute for cancellation but is not eligible for any kind of refund.
Refund Policy for Value Addition Course Deposit
The college does not require any deposit for the standard admission process. However, students opting for value addition courses must pay a refundable deposit of ₹2,500. This amount will be refunded after the successful completion of all value addition courses and the final year examinations. The deposit is intended to promote consistent attendance and active participation in these courses.
Contact Info
Address: Survey No. 12, 13
Opp. Hypercity Mall, Kasarvadavali,
Ghodbunder Road, Thane West,
Thane, Maharashtra 400615
Phone: 022-25973737
[email protected]
Mobile: 7738305400 / 7738940600
Exam (for exam/transcripts related queries contact:
[email protected]
,
[email protected]
)