 
 
1 
 
 
INDUSTRY INSTITUTE INTERACTION (III)CELL  
 
 Preamble 
To improve the quality of technical education adequately, to meet the needs of the Industry, 
society and economy, technical education system should operate at optimum efficiency and 
should produce good quality engineers who will deliver quality product to employers. To 
optimize the deployment of physical and human resources of Institutions and Industries in the 
pursuit of development of technical manpower & to enlist participation of industry in technical 
education programs, with a view to have better interaction between Industries and Institute, 
APSIT has started Industry Institute Interaction Cell (IIIC). 
 
APSIT has always emphasized on strong industry institute relationship. For this, the 
college is having dedicated Industry Institute Interaction (III) Cell. The sole objective of this cell 
is to cultivate synergetic relationship between college and industry as well as college and other 
research institutes. Since inception, the college is trying to develop excellent relationship with 
industry through which the college will be able to achieve many of its objectives such as 
placements, research, consultancy etc. Strong industry linkages are helping the college to bring 
better placements, summer internships and opportunities to our students for industry visits. 
Routinely, many industry professionals conduct guest lectures thus providing students with 
practical aspects of the concepts that they learn in their classrooms. Through III Cell many 
faculty members of the college may engage in various consulting assignments which in turn 
bring industry exposure into the four walls of classrooms. 
 
 
 Vision  
 
To develop APSIT a hub for the exchange of the best talents from industry and academia.  
 
 Mission  
 
 APSIT to be a Centre of Excellence for Research & Consultancy in constant 
collaboration with industry.  
 To make our students employment ready by enhancing their skills at par with industry 
requirement.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
 
 Objectives  
 
 The III cell will start functioning with the below mentioned objectives: 
 
1. To catalyze the growth of the students with the active interaction and the engagement 
between the industry and the institute. 
2. To encourage faculty members to use their expertise in solving the problems faced by the 
industry, to create opportunity for research and consultancy. 
3. To bring about MOUs and agreements with various industrial and research organizations. 
4. To identify industry partners for proposing “Centre of Excellence” in the institute. 
5. To identify the areas for the executive development programs in the areas of recent 
technological advances. 
6. To assist the departments in achieving their vision by align with industries. 
7. To study challenges in the product development by the industry and collaborate for the 
effective solutions.  
 
 To promote Industry - Institute Interaction following initiatives are being 
undertaken  
 
1. Establishment of the Industry Institute Interaction Cell (IIIC)  
2. Organizing Workshops, conferences and symposia with joint participation of the faculty 
and the industries.  
3. Professional consultancy by the faculty to industries.  
4. Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the Institute and industries to bring the 
two sides emotionally and strategically closer.  
5. Continuing Education and Training for Faculty members. 
6. Industrial Training & Internship for Students  
7. B.E. Projects/dissertation works in industries under joint guidance of the faculty and 
experts from industry.  
8. Arranging visits of staff members and Students to various Industries.  
 
 
3 
 
9. Visits of industry executives and practicing engineers to the Institute for seeing research 
work and laboratories, discussions and delivering lectures on industrial practices, trends 
and experiences.  
10. Projects Sponsorship for students  
 
 
 ROAD MAP of III CELL 
 
Considering the thrust areas, action plan has been prepared by III Cell of the Institute to fulfill 
the aims of Industry Institute Interaction into success:  
 
i. Preparing / updating a comprehensive directory of technology experts in different fields of 
expertise and know-how and forging continuing links with them through various means of 
involvement like talks, guest lectures, internships, field visits, research collaboration, 
students project guidance, seminars etc.  
 
ii. Preparing / updating of an information brochure / aud io-visual giving salient features of the 
Institute including various program, R&D activities (completed / ongoing), expertise 
available along with equipment and testing facilities. 
 
iii. Establishing / continuing liaison between faculty in the Institute, representatives from the 
Industries and representatives from organizations involved in the promotion of industrial 
development in the region through organizing regular group meetings for mutual benefits to 
both the systems i.e. industry and institute  
 
iv. Short listing and updating a list of top executives and technologists from various industries / 
establishments in the region and working out a system of arranging their presentations to the 
faculty and students.
 
 
v. Reviewing curricula and reorient these to meet the needs of the industry by involving 
 
 
vi. 
 
 
vii. 
 
 
viii. Membership drive for “Industrial Associate ship Scheme ” with the objective of providing 
various facilities at the institute such as library, testing, consultancy etc. at a concessional 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
 
 
 CONSTITUTION OF THE CELL 
 
Industry Institute Interaction (III) Cell which continuously monitors the industry- institute 
interface exists in the areas of the collaboration, MOUs, industrial projects, industrial inplant 
training, for the undergraduate students of the institute. 
The III Cell has been constituted in the institute from June 2018. The meeting of the III cell will 
be conducted thrice per semester 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S.No. Name Role Specialisation 
1 Dr. U. D. Kolekar Chairman Principal 
2 Prof. A.M. Deshpande Member Dean Academics 
3 Dr. S.S. Nanivadekar Member Dean Administration 
   4 Mr. Sandeep Khuperkar Member Comuter/IT Expert 
5 Dr. Amol Madane Member Comuter/IT Expert 
6 Mr. Vinayak Narkar Member Comuter/IT Expert 
7 Mr. R.Y. Muke Member Civil Engg Expert 
8 Mr. G.Y. Sawant Member Mechanical Engg Expert 
9 Mr. Anand Deshpande Member Electronics Telecom Expert 
10 Mr. Faisal Khan Member Training & Placement Officer 
11 Prof. Vivek Pagey Co-ordinator Assistant Professor, Civil 
 
 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
