Counselling | APSIT
Skip to main content
Convocation Ceremony @APSIT
Our Recruiters
Capgemini Placed Students of 2025 Batch
LTI Mind Tree Placed Students
APSIT: Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE), Maharashtra-Goa has awarded. APSIT "The Best Engineering College" and "Best Principal"
AurionPro Placed Students
Counselling
Along with Physical growth and development, psychological and spiritual growth are equally important. Taking care of mental health is as required as taking care of physical health. Mental or emotional health refers to your overall psychological well-being. It includes the way you feel about yourself, the quality of your relationships, and your ability to manage your feelings and deal with difficulties.
As the world is becoming very competitive wherein all age groups are experiencing social, personal, educational problem at some or the other level in their daily lives.
The growing pressure to excel everywhere often leads to emotional or psychological turmoil, thus disturbing one‘s peace of mind.
There arises a need of a counselor who provides a comfortable and confidential environment whereby the students can confide in.
Counseling Service is to help the students to focus on and understand the issues that concern them and make themselves independent to function their lives smoothly by tackling personal, family and peer problems as well as managing academics more responsibly.
So, if you are not able to deal with your problems effectively, you can take help of counseling. Kindly note that going for counseling does not indicate that you are weak or incapable of solving your problems in fact it is an opportunity for a new outlook towards life.
Objectives
To assist students who are in need regarding their personal concerns by the means of personal counselling.
To help students development on the psychological, social and academics levels by means of counselling.
To help students in developing skills and use their full potential even outside the institute for their growth and success.
To organize workshops sessions related to mental health for students and faculty as per the requirement.
General problems for which students can approach the counselor.
Academics concerns
Low self confidence
Problems related to peers
Emotional stress
Relationships
Family concerns
Financial problems
Decisions regarding career
Drugs or alcohol addiction
Adjusting to the new environment
Home sickness
Sleep disorders
Loneliness
Anxiety
Time management
Communication skills
Stress management
Health and Wellness
Eating disorders
Domestic violence
Sexuality
Grief or loss
Depression
Lack of motivation
Concentration difficulties
Contact Info
Address: Survey No. 12, 13
Opp. Hypercity Mall, Kasarvadavali,
Ghodbunder Road, Thane West,
Thane, Maharashtra 400615
Phone: 022-25973737
[email protected]
Mobile: 7738305400 / 7738940600
Exam (for exam/transcripts related queries contact:
[email protected]
,
[email protected]
)