              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE 
for Faculty and Students 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 2 
 
CONTENT 
1. Overview  
2. Preamble  
3. APSIT IIC  
4. Major Focus of APSIT IIC 
5. Functions of APSIT IIC 
6. Broad Services Offered by APSIT IIC 
7. Action Plan of APSIT IIC  
8. How do we achieve this? 
9. APSIT Innovation and Start-up Policy 
10. Vision  
11. Mission  
12. Objective  
13. Scope 
14. Policy Period 
15. Implementation and Deployment of the Policy 
16. Definitions  
17. Why Start a Company? 
18. Eligibility 
19. Beneficiaries  
20. Type of Companies  
21. Incubates applying at APSIT IIC categorization 
22. Admission Procedure for APSIT IIC Services 
23. How APSIT IIC can help start-ups? 
24. Selection of Ideas for Pre Incubation / Incubation  
25. Pre Incubation Stages Services  
26. Incubation Stages Services 
27. Financial strategies and resource Mobilization 
28. Start-up Process at APSIT 
29. Role of APSIT Udaan with the Start-ups  
30. Guidelines for Involvement of APSIT Members in Start-ups 
31. Modes of Engagement of Faculty members with Start-ups 
32. Modes of Engagement for Research Scholars and Students with Start-ups 
33. Guidelines for Equity sharing between Start -ups of Faculty Members/Student with APSIT 
Udaan 
34. Guidelines regarding Non -Disclosure Agreements, Indemnification, Arbitration & Dispute 
Resolution 
35. Conflict of Interest 
36. Guidelines for Management of Conflict of Interest 
37. Withdrawal of Support 
38. Protection of APSIT’s Fair Name 
39. Selection and Exit Policy for Incubatees 
40. Describe the Exit strategy 
41. Entrepreneurial Ecosystem (Local and Institute) 
42. Pre Incubation Facilities  
43. Lab Facilities  
44. Incubation Facilities  
45. Activities planned  
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 3 
 
 
OVERVIEW OF APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students  
 
The APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE is a tool for APSIT faculty, students and staff inventors 
interested in starting a company based on their innovations. Where can you go for help? This guide 
encapsulates the many resources available to APSIT innovators and the institutional policies that are 
most relevant to start -ups. We also answer questions that APSIT entrepreneurs frequently ask our 
APSIT IIC Team. 
APSIT has created this guide to overview some of the key questions and issues that may arise in front 
of the aspiring entrepreneur, as you begin your journey to start a new company around innovations 
starting from your lab. Its purpose is not to supply all the answers, but rather to provide a starting 
point for engaging you in a conversation with the APSIT IIC about your entrepreneurial journey. APSIT 
IIC works closely with APSIT faculty, staff, students, and research fellows to explore the potential of 
forming start -up companies around new inventions a nd platform technologies arising from their 
research.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For more information, visit www.apsit.edu.in or call the APSIT IIC at 9881313231 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 4 
 
 
PREAMBLE 
 
India aspires to become 5 trillion -dollar economy by 2024. With its skilled and aspirationa l younger 
population requires to create opportunities to participate optimally in the market, which is likely to 
ride on finance, internet, modern technologies and agribusiness, that it will fundamentally transform 
the way a business is set up and run. We are just starting to set up facilities such as Incubators to 
promote a culture of entrepreneurship, incubate start-ups and actively contribute to product, service 
and online businesses.  
MHRD and AICTE and NITI Aayog have been encouraging higher educationa l institutions, to actively 
engage in promotion of entrepreneurship, innovation and skill building. Government of India’s 
numerous initiatives, such as Start-up India, Make in India, Stand up India, and Credit availability has 
kindled entrepreneurship aspirations, particularly among youth. Innovators, students, entrepreneurs, 
alumni and employees in formal / informal sector are looking for support to commercialise their ideas.  
The APSIT has prepared the following start-up policy as it recognises the impact entrepreneurship can 
have in terms of identifying and solving scientific and technical challenges and acknowledges the role 
of Start-ups in commercialising the Intellectual Property (IP) originating from its Research activities 
among its faculty and students.  
The APSIT’s Institute Innovation Cell (Henceforth called APSIT IIC) is dedicated to fostering a culture 
of innovators, entrepreneurs and partners across APSIT, and supporting the a dvancement of their 
innovations towards the benefit of society. 
While formulating the AP SIT Innovation and Start-up Policy, besides the recommendations made by 
the Atal Innovation Mission (A IM), the MHRD’s Innovation Cell ( MIC), AICTE and the Government of 
Maharashtra’s Start-up policy, the recommendations made by all Departments and the best practices 
followed by HEI’s in India have also been taken into account. This document contains APSIT Start-ups 
policy and procedures for operational matters related to APSIT IIC. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 5 
 
 
APSIT IIC 
Considering the global trends and MHRD’s Innovation c ell initiative, APSIT’s Institute Innovation Cell 
(APSIT IIC) was established with the help of council members from all our departments with external 
experts, to enable Innovation through Research and partnerships for translating domain expertise into 
products or technologies. APSIT IIC aims at nurturing entrepreneurial spirit, promote start -ups by 
providing appropriate incubation facilities, offer consultancy services and improve industry institute 
interaction. It envisions creating products and technologi es that address the societal needs and also 
foster the innovative minds. 
The APSIT IIC cultivates an ecosystem for innovation and entrepreneurship through incubation 
support, the facilitation of technology transfer for commercialization by the multidiscipl inary 
approach. APSIT IIC would like to provide the opportunity for students and faculty to use their learning 
to solve complex engineering challenges, through projects.  
 
Major Focus of APSIT’s IIC 
1. To create a vibrant local innovation ecosystem. 
2. Start-up/ entrepreneurship supporting Mechanism in HEIs. 
3. Prepare institute for Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements Framework 
(ARIIA). 
4. Establish Function Ecosystem for Scouting Ideas and Pre-incubation of Ideas. 
5. Develop better Cognitive Ability amongst Technology Students. 
 
Functions of APSIT’s IIC 
1. To conduct various innovation and entrepreneurship-related activities  
2. Identify and reward innovations and share success stories. 
3. Organize periodic Industrial Visits, workshops/ seminars/ interactions w ith entrepreneurs, 
investors, professionals  
4. Create a mentor pool for student innovators. 
5. Network with peers and national entrepreneurship development organizations. 
6. Organize Hackathons, idea competition, mini -challenges etc. with the involvement of 
industries. 
7. Internship for Students 
8. Faculty Development Programs 
9. Research and Development Projects 
10. Training Students in association with Industry 
 
 
 
 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 6 
 
 
BROAD SERVICES OFFERED BY APSIT IIC  
1. Foster and promote entrepreneurship spirit. 
2. Facilitate knowledge creation, innovation and entrepreneurship activities  
3. Creating a collaborative environment between industry and academia through joint research 
projects and consulting assignments. 
4. Incubating early stage technology based innovative entrepreneurial ventures. 
5. Encouraging and enabling the alignment of R&D activities to potential needs of the industry. 
6. Identifying technologies/innovations which have potential for commercial ventures. 
7. Physical infrastructure and support systems creation for business incubation activities. 
8. Facilitate networking with professional resources, which include mentors, experts, 
consultants and advisors for the incubate companies. 
9. Enabling development of high quality personnel and motivating researchers to grow 
professionally within organizations through part time Masters and PhD Programs. 
10. Mentoring and administrative Support (round the clock) 
11. Technical support (Design, Simulations, Development and Testing) 
12. Financial support (Seed Support, Innovation, Guidance for raising grant funding, Refinement 
& Commercialization Grant) 
13. Legal advices are given with the help of Intellectual Property. Support in securing IPR, access 
to facilities, resources. 
14. Fabrication Assistance through numerous labs. 
15. Market Information (Product Development Strategies, Business Intelligence and Business 
Architecture). Assistant in market research and business planning  
16. Networking with Research Laboratories (For Knowledge diffusion and day to day interactions). 
17. MOU with other Institutes- share our pre incubation facilities with them  
ACTION PLAN OF APSIT IIC  
1. Start-up Policy and Implementation 
2. Awareness and Outreach 
3. Incubation Support 
4. Seed Funding Support; Angel and Venture Funding Support 
5. Easing Institutional policy for students, faculty and staff 
HOW DO WE ACHIEVE THIS? 
Education: Academic programs on social innovation and entrepreneurship for students across 
disciplines and degrees at APSIT Institute.  
Research: CIIE provides an enabling environment for both student and faculty researchers interested 
in social enterprise research within the at APSIT Institute campus. 
Catalysing Innovation:  Encouraging young innovators and entrepreneurs by assisting in the 
development of socially-beneficial products and ideas 
Industry Collaboration: Creating an ecosystem that extends to other technology institutions, including 
industry collaborations.  
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 7 
 
 
APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP POLICY  
APSIT envisions an enabling environment to address the aspirations of youth, and proposes to engage 
with all stakeholders in the development of an ecosystem for  strengthening the start -up with 
appropriate incubation and mentoring infrastructure, fast track legal support, and network of 
appropriate funding agencies, it has been decided to prepare a detailed policy and procedures.  
The policy, thus prepared and acc epted by the APSIT IIC , is subject to periodical review and 
amendments. It will be the responsibility of the APSIT staff/ students / faculty / Visitors, once adopted 
by the Management Board of the Institute (APSIT Members), to update themselves from time to time 
on amendments in Start-up policy and procedures. APSIT reserves the rights to make an exception of 
all or any of the terms of policy for a particular APSIT Members, once adopted by the Management 
Board of the Institute on a case to case basis. These  guidelines will enable APSIT to actively support 
their faculty, staff and students to participate in innovation and entrepreneurship related activities, 
thus encouraging students and faculty to consider start-ups and entrepreneurship as a career option.  
 
VISION  
 
 To cultivate an entrepreneurial ecosystem and to create an academic knowledge through 
scientific and technological research by the staff and the students to assist masses and impact the 
society.   
 
 
MISSION  
 
 To motivate and build out of box thinking, development of innovative ideas.  
 To promote innovation and entrepreneurship by staff and students and assist commercialisation 
of their inventions through Intellectual Property rights in a way that would nurture innovation and 
entrepreneurship among the staff and the students. 
 To strengthen the start -up culture in the Institute by fostering greater social acceptance and 
recognition of promising start -ups, through strategic investment policy interventions and such 
other programs.  
 
OBJECTIVE OF THE POLICY 
1. Promotion of Entrepreneurship  The intent of the Innovation and Start-up Policy is to foster 
entrepreneurial ecosystem which encourages co -creation by involving students, faculty and 
professionals from multiple disciplines. Also, it lays down guidel ines for the involvement of the 
Institute’s Staff and Students.  
 
2. Entrepreneurship management The Innovation and Start-up Policy seeks to set the framework for 
the involvement of the Institute’ s Staff and Students in Commercialising Institute’s Research into 
products, services and processes. It encourages Staff Members, Students and Visitors to become 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 8 
 
Entrepreneurs. It also establishes clear rules and procedures for the creation/participation of Staff and 
Student led Start-ups which may or may not be based on the Institute’s IP.  
 
3. Entrepreneurship guidance The Institute has established Technology Incubator in the Institute 
campus to provide the entrepreneurs with the necessary guidance, mentorship and infrastructure 
support in order to nurture their ideas and help translate them into successful Start-ups.  
 Technology Commercialization, targeted at providing a much needed platform for speedy 
 Commercialization of technologies developed in the academic and R & D institutions to reach 
the end users. 
 Interfacing and Networking between academic, R & D institutions, industries and financial 
institutions. 
 Value Addition through its services provided to its incubatees as well as to the existing 
technology dominated SMEs, TBI aim at value addition. 
 Creating value added jobs & services, fostering the entrepreneurial spirit. 
 
4. Balance of interests The Start-up Policy seeks to reiterate that the employee’s primary commitment 
of time and intellectual contributions should be  to the education, research and other obligations of 
the Institute  and they have a primary professional obligation to act in the best interests of the 
Institute. Hence, care must be taken to avoid any cases of Confl ict of Interest (COI) and Confl ict of 
Commitment (COC) by all the APSIT Members.  
 
 
SCOPE 
 
Applicability This Policy applies to all Staff Members, Students and Visitors who are willing to or may 
have started a commercialisation entity (Company/Start-up) which may or may not be based on the 
Institute IP. Rights and obligations under this Po licy shall survive any termination of employment, 
enrolment or Appointment at the Institute.  
 
Binding effect of the Policy This Policy constitutes an understanding that is binding on the Institute, 
Staff Members, Students and Visitors, once adopted by the Management Board of the Institute (Hence 
forth called APSIT Members).  
 
POLICY PERIOD 
 
The initial period of the Innovation and Start-up Policy shall be from the year 2020 to 2023. 
 
IMPLEMENTATION AND DEPLOYMENT OF THE POLICY 
 
APSIT IIC shall be constitut ed to provide guidance and to lead the policy’s implementation and 
coordination. APSIT IIC members to oversee the implementation and deployment of the policy. 
 
 
 
 
 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 9 
 
 
DEFINITIONS 
1. Innovation: Conceptually, any innovation implies substantial improvement in  the ways of doing 
things, producing goods or providing services. It may  involve a new use of an existing resource or 
producing or delivering existing  goods or services through new methods or new 
instruments/materials. 
2. Start-up: Start-up is an entity th at develops a business model based on either  product innovation 
or service innovation and makes it scalable and replicable so as to be self-reliant.  
3. Proof-of-concept (POC) stage: Proof-of-concept is the stage where the  innovator / start -up 
demonstrates a fundamental functioning demonstration of the idea / hypothesis / innovation. 
4. Prototype-stage: A prototype-stage is a pre -production / pre-launch stage where the innovator / 
start-up team has developed a basic minimum viable  product (MVP) with most ke y features desired 
in the final product. 
5. Minimum viable product (MVP) is a product with just enough features to gather validated learning 
about the product and its continued development. 
6. Student Start -up: Student Start -up is any student -led innovatio n based  start-up that has been 
founded by the efforts of one or more student(s) and /  or alumni (not more than 5 years from 
graduation), from any university / educational institute in the state, with or without the help of faculty 
guides and external support agents. Recently, AAPSITE has developed a national roadmap for student 
start-up support system. 
7. Pre-incubation: Pre-incubation makes up early stage support systems for the innovation & start-up 
value chain that comprises an enabling environment to  trigger creative ideas, hand-holding ideas at 
conceptualisation stage, extending basic facility to test the ideas and validate its early users, basic  
common working infrastructures, and access to existing resources before the  innovation reaches an 
enterprise stage. 
8. Incubator: Incubator is an organisation established to accelerate the growth  of start-ups, through 
an array of business support, resources, mentorship, networking and other common services such as 
physical space, capital, and coaching. 
9. Technology Business Incubator: A Technology Business Incubator (TBI) is an incubator established 
to support technology -driven start -ups generally supported by the National Science & Technology 
Entrepreneurship Development Board (NSTEDB), Department of Science & Technology (DST),  and 
Government of India. 
 
10. Atal Innovation Mission (AIM): The Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) is  Government of India’s 
endeavour to promote a culture of innovation and  entrepreneurship. Its objective is to serve as a 
platform for promoti on of world-class Innovation Hubs, Grand Challenges, Start -up businesses and 
other self-employment activities, particularly in technology driven areas. AIM is established under the 
NITI Aayog. 
 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 10 
 
11. Tinkering Lab / Fab Lab / Innovation Studio: A Tinkering L ab / Fab Lab is a combination of 
experimental research and specialisation, where students may tinker with emerging technology and 
fabricate and create new products /prototypes. 
12. Accelerators: An accelerator is similar to an incubator except, as the name  suggests, a start -up 
accelerator fosters rapid growth of the start -ups it incubates. Usually accelerators package 
mentorship, access to technology, office space and access to an innovative community into a relatively 
shorter timeline for faster growth. 
13. Angel Investors: An angel investor is a person who provides financial support by investing capital 
- typically, a relatively smaller seed capital - in a start-up. 
14. Venture Capital: Venture Capital (VC) is a type of funding that originates from venture capital firms 
that specialise in building high risk financial portfolios. Typically, such firms provide growth -level 
funding to established start-ups against equity as well as create value for start-ups by providing access 
to their networks for employees, clients, products, or services of the start-up. 
15. Appointment: A formal agreement for a Visitor at the Institute, which is a pre requisite to 
participate in or conduct Research, scholarship, creative work, or teaching at the Institute.  
16. Author: Any person to whom this Policy is applicable, who individually or jointly with others makes 
a design, a mark or copyrightable work and who meets the criteria for authorship under the IP laws of 
India.  
17. Conflict of Commitment (COC): Any situation in which a n individual Staff Member’s or Visitor’s 
primary professional loyalty is not to the Institute because the time devoted to outside activities 
adversely affects their capacity to meet their responsibilities as set out in their employment contract 
of Appointment.  
18. Conflict of Interest (COI): Any situation in which real or perceived interests of an individual Staff 
Member, Visitor or Student may run counter to the interests of the Institute or negatively affect their 
employment or duties.  
19. Gross Non-IP Revenue: All revenue received by the Institute for Execution of Projects / Scientific 
or Clinical Work as part of the Research Contract before any cost recovery or deductions for the 
incurred Expenses.  
20. Institute IP: IP owned or co-owned by the Institute.  
21. Intellectual Property (IP): All outputs of creative endeavour in any field at the Institute for which 
legal rights may be obtained or enforced pursuant to the law. IP may include:  
a. Literary works, including publications in respect of Research r esults, and associated materials, 
including drafts, data sets and laboratory notebooks;  
b. Teaching and learning materials;  
c. Other original literary, dramatic, musical or artistic works, sound recordings, films, broadcasts, and 
typographical arrangements, multimedia works, photographs, drawings, and other works created with 
the aid of University resources or facilities;  
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 11 
 
d. Databases, tables or compilations, computer software, preparatory design material for a computer 
program, firmware, courseware, and related material;  
e. Patentable and non-patentable technical information;  
f. Designs including layout designs (topographies) of integrated circuits;  
g. Plant varieties and related information;  
h. Trade secrets;  
i. Know-how, information and data associated with the above; and  
j. Any other University-commissioned works not included above.  
 
22. Staff Member: Any person who is under a contract of employment with the Institute including 
academic, research, technical, administrative and adjunct staff, whether full-time or part-time or on a 
temporary basis.  
 
23. Student: Any student registered for an approved course at the Institute.  
 
24. Substantial Use: Extensive use of the Institute’s resources which include but are not limited to 
facilities, equipment, human resources or funds. Not included is routine use of libraries and/or office 
space or the IP has been written or developed in the personal (unpaid) time of the Inventor.  
 
25. Visitor: Any person who is neither a Staff Member nor a Student of the Institute who engages in 
work at the Institute , including visiting professors, adjunct and conjoint professors, teachers, 
researchers, scholars and volunteers; and who concludes an Appointment agreement with the 
Institute.   
 
26. Technology Commercialization : is the process of transitioning technologies from research 
laboratories to the marketplace. 
 
27. Technology Licensing Agreement: is where an owner of a technological intellectual property (the 
Licensor) allows another party (the licensee) to use, modify, and/or resell that property in exchange 
for a compensation. 
 
28. Technology Management: is the integrated planning, design, optimization, operation and control 
of technological products, processes and services. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 12 
 
 
WHY START A COMPANY? 
There are a number of factors to be considered, when launching a new company.  Most of the time, 
only some inventions may be suitable for the creation of a start -up company. Compared to an 
academic lab or a large company, innovations may progress more quickly in a focused start-up. APSIT 
IIC helps to analyse several factors to determine whether a start -up is the most appropriate for 
commercialization:  
 
o Demand: Potential of the core technology to provide a solid platform for multiple markets or 
product opportunities. 
o Competition: Identification of other companies that offer similar solutions. 
o Licensing: Likelihood of interest from existing companies in licensing the technology. 
o Funding: Availability of capital to build and grow the business, together with the interest, 
capabilities, and track record of likely investors. 
o Commitment: Level of commitment and involvement of the inventors. 
o Support: Presence of a true business champion for both the technology and the new venture. 
o Management: Experience, passion, and drive of the start-up’s executive team. 
 
ELIGIBILITY 
APSIT IIC seeks to support all members of the APSIT, Thane to translate innovations into products, 
processes and services that are commercially viable. Admission to APSIT IIC is open to: 
 Students and Project staff 
 Alumni 
 Faculty and staff (current and retired) including adjunct faculty 
The admission to APSIT IIC is open to aspiring start-ups in the different areas, promoted by: 
 Students and alumni of APSIT, Thane. 
 Faculty members (present or former) of APSIT, Thane  
 R&D partners (sponsors of R&D and consultancy projects) 
 Industrial Collaborators 
 
BENIFICIRIES  
A team which consists of at least one member from APSIT, Thane community who could be Students 
Alumni Faculty Permanent Staff Research Partner Institute Socie ty at Large. The scope of support is 
envisioned to be broad-based, and cover technologies/IP developed wholly at the Institute or partly 
through collaborations elsewhere, as well as external start -ups with which APSIT, Thane personnel 
may be associated as consultants or mentors. IIC will in particular, also be open to proposals with 
strong social and strategic impact. IIC is also the nodal body to frame and monitor agreements 
regarding policy and fair use between APSIT, Thane and incubated companies. 
 
 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 13 
 
 
TYPE OF COMPANIES  
This Institute encourages and promotes the following companies/ventures  (Henceforth called 
COMPANY).  
 
Companies/Ventures jointly owned by the Staff Members and Graduating Students/Alumni (along 
with possibly others)  
Companies/ Ventures owned by the Staff Members (one or many) along with possibly others.  
Companies/ Ventures owned by the Graduating Students, Alumni along with possibly others  
 
In such cases, the Staff Members and Students will be known as founding members of the board of 
the company.  
 
THE INCUBATES APPLYING AT APSIT IIC- CATEGORIZATION  
Incubation Program is focused on technology and knowledge based ventures. The incubates applying 
at APSIT IIC Are categorized as below-  
 
Type I 
Company in this category are typically the project initiated by one or more members of the academic 
staff, students and/or alumni of APSIT, Thane or some other technology promotion agency 
(government or non-government) with a view to trying out a novel technological idea for upgradation 
to a commerc ial proposition, scaling up a laboratory proven concept, and setting up a technology 
business enterprise. 
Type II 
A typical Company in this category can be a technology-based start-up company promoted by a first 
generation entrepreneur desirous of R&D partnership with the APSIT, Thane or company with a view 
to trying out a novel technological idea for upgradation to a commercial proposition, scaling up a 
laboratory proven concept and setting up a technology business enterprise. 
Type III 
Company in this category typically can be a technology/R&D unit of an existing small/medium size 
enterprise, industry association or a R&D Company that desires to have close technology interface 
with APSIT, Thane.  
All the applicants under any of the above categories are ev aluated by the evaluation committee of 
APSIT IIC before the applicant can be granted admission to APSIT IIC. For successful applicant, who are 
no longer part of APSIT fraternity, and, are approved for membership by the APSIT IIC evaluation 
committee will have to execute an agreement for space utilization with the APSIT, Thane as well as a 
bilateral MOU on Synergistic collaboration with the Institute through IIC. 
 
 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 14 
 
ADMISSION PROCEDURE FOR APSIT IIC SERVICES 
Admission Procedure Anyone wants to avail APSIT IIC / innovation and start-up scheme must register 
through website www.apsit.edu.in. After registering Category Type I has to give details of their ideas, 
category Type II has to put all the details about ideas, registration certificates etc. and Category Type 
III small/medium size enterprise, industry association or a R&D Company details in the website itself. 
The confirmation of admission will be notified in the website. 
 
HOW APSIT IIC CAN HELP START-UPS? 
1. Administration, governance, and policy formulation  
2. Acceptance/rejection of proposed ideas  
3. Review of performance of incubated companies as well as other assisted companies  
4. Creation, validation, renewal, and termination of contracts  
5. Formulate, manage and run programs organised by/for APSIT towards the develop ment of 
entrepreneurship and innovation of its students, alumni, faculty as well as external agencies 
and individuals  
6. Code of conduct and ethic  
SELECTION OF BUSINESS IDEAS FOR PRE-INCUBATION / INCUBATION  
• Ensure considerable commercial potential 
• Ensure commitment of the team to create a new start-up venture  
• Ensure IP field 
• Ensure team leader take responsibility to lead the project once pre-incubation phase is over  
• Creating Pathways for Entrepreneurs within Institute (clause 3(g) (m), (n), (o) NISP 2019) 
PRE INCUBATION STAGES SERVICES-  
 First appointment – idea formulation, idea assessment, market validation of the idea  
 Training- on the managerial issues, Presentation skills, On more specialised topics ( i.e. IP 
rights, legal and administration)  
 Orientation- Defining the business idea, defining the business model 
 Innovation assessment- Through internal competencies, through external committee 
 Business plan/Business Model- Competition of the BP the financial forecasts  
INCUBATION STAGES SERVICES-  
 Start-up creation- Selection and admission, access to finance, legal and administrative 
support, physical facilitates, intellectual property rights, education and access to knowledge 
 Early Stage - Fund rising, mentoring and coaching advisory board, networking, tech nology 
transfer, assistance with business basics and marketing, HR training 
 Expansion- Definition of the exit strategy 
FINANCIAL STRATEGIES AND RESOURCE MOBILIZATION- 
 Generate funds through CSR or supporting the technology incubators 
 Government organisation such as DST, MHRD, AAPSITE, BIRAC, TIFAC, NRDC, MeitY, MSME, 
Start-up India, Invest India, etc.  
 Alumni network for getting sponsorships and donations for activities  
 International Partnerships including exchange programs, internships, FDP programs Clause 1 
© NISP 2019 
 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 15 
 
START-UP PROCESS AT APSIT 
A. CONTACT APSIT-IIC  
We encourage inventor student/faculty to discuss your invention and how to protect the intellectual 
property and to check the suitability of a start-up. In our initial meeting we will discuss about project 
goals, objectives for advancing the idea and any research or understandings of the market need 
required to move forward the idea.   
B. PROTECT INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 
A key source of value and thus a major asset for attracting investment in a s tart-up is IP that is 
intellectual property. Work with APSIT -IIC to file a patent application filed on your invention before 
you make it public. After public disclosure, obtaining a patent option may no longer be possible.  
The Invention Disclosure is a confidential document, and should fully describe the new aspects of the 
invention, including the critical solution it provides and its advantages and benefits over current 
technologies. Invention disclosures can be submitted through APSIT IIC. (If appropriate, necessary, or 
warranted) Patent protection, a common legal protection method, begins with the filing of a patent 
application with the India Patent and Trademark Office and, when appropriate, foreign patent offices. 
C. SEEK INPUT AND NETWORK 
APSIT-IIC provides a wealth of resources to get started through all facets of the start -up process—
from writing a business plan, to meeting like-minded entrepreneurs and investors, to attracting board 
members, to securing funding to demonstrate an invention’s commercial viability. Work with a mentor 
regularly, network with like -minded entrepreneurs, review ideas with potential investors, and 
evaluate the commercial aspects with potential customers.  
D. PLAN THE BUSINESS 
No formal business plan is needed however develo p an understanding of the market potential, 
competition, funding needs, and how you develop a product and adequate profit to survive and grow 
the company. APSIT -IIC would provide a guidance on competitive analysis, market assessment, and 
business planning. 
E. NEGOTIATE THE LICENSE OR OPTION AGREEMENT 
To demonstrate to potential financiers that the company has secured the rights to the technology, 
obtain a license or a short term option agreement from APSIT. APSIT -IIC will lead these negotiations 
along with a representative of the company. 
Most start-ups request an exclusive license because they believe it is required to raise funding for the 
company. Typical terms for an exclusive license with a start -up company include but are not limited 
to equity, royalties’ diligence milestones and fees. 
F. PURSUE FUNDING 
Typically an external capital is required for the commercialization of the technology. You will need to 
connect with the people providing funds like venture capitalists, angel investors, and, perhaps, in the 
initial stages friends and the family. APSIT-IIC assists in making connections with entrepreneurs, angel 
investors, and venture capitalists. 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 16 
 
ROLE OF APSIT UDAAN INCUBATION CENTER (APSIT UDAAN) WITH THE START-UPS 
APSIT IIC on behalf of APSIT Udaan will carry out all dealings with start-ups right from the selection of 
the start-up. APSIT Udaan will actively support the start-up with a combination of inputs and services 
covering: 
• Office and operational space 
• Permission to use laboratories and equipment 
• Advice on Intellectual Property protection and commercial transactions 
• Business and financial structuring advice 
• Mentoring and networking support 
• Advice on fund raising 
• Logistics support 
• Monitoring and reporting 
• Permission to use the brand of APSIT Udaan 
APSIT Udaan could outsource some of the above services to external consultants, advisors and 
vendors on a case to case basis. 
APSIT Udaan can allow the start -up to use its facilities and services for a period of three years from 
the date of formal approval extendable to a maximum period of five years from the date of formal 
approval on a selective basis if such extension and support is warranted. 
The APSIT IIC will formulate rules for the functioning of the start -up at APSIT Udaan which will cover 
extent of period stay allowed and conditions under which the start -up will have to exit the APSIT 
Udaan before the completion of the contacted maximum period of three or five years, as the case 
may be. Some of the criteria for deciding the same could  be gross annual revenues, number of 
employees exceeding a certain threshold, underperformance or unviability of the business 
proposition, irresolvable disputes between promoters/founders, changes in promoters/founders 
team or business proposition, merger or acquisition deal with change in ownership or non-compliance 
with APSIT Udaan terms and conditions. It will also formulate rules regarding the holding period, 
valuation and disposal of equity shares held by APSIT Udaan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 17 
 
GUIDELINES FOR INVOLVEMENT OF APSIT MEMBERS IN START-UPS 
Universities all over the world encourage and enable their faculty members, researchers and students 
to involve in start-ups in various capacities while in professional employment with the 
university/institute. Such measures en courage transformation of inventions and innovations into 
commercial products/services for the greater good of the society. In many instances, such start-ups 
are often established in campuses of universities/research institutions due to their special needs and 
resource requirements such as domain expertise, specialized facilities and knowhow. Faculty 
members and students at APSIT too are continuously engaged in several cutting-edge research areas. 
However, due to several reasons, most of these research outcomes may/may not get translated into 
commercial products /services, be nefiting the society in general . The objective of supporting 
entrepreneurship is to encourage participation of faculty members and students in commercial 
ventures, companies or similar en tities with equity participation as an additional dimension to their 
existing roles as faculty members or students. APSIT encourages its faculty members and students to 
engage in businesses that are direct results of the research activities at APSIT, be on the board of such 
companies in the capacities of director, chairperson, promoter or any such role, subject to the terms 
and conditions of APSIT start-up Policy applicable across APSIT’s various departments. The overall goal 
of implementing this Policy is to encourage entrepreneurship at APSIT and to link innovation to 
enterprises to financial success. 
With a view to permitting and enabling the faculty members, research scholars and students to set up 
and involve in start-ups set up both at the campuses as well as outside the campuses, APSIT may 
consider the following guidelines for the same: 
• Any permanent faculty member or staff on duty or on leave, faculty on tenure, research associates, 
post-doctoral fellows and students having live registration (herein after referred to as “APSIT 
Member”), will be permitted to involve with start-ups either on a full - or part -time basis as 
promoter/advisor/consultant/any other approved role. 
• An APSIT Member as defined above will be permitted to use specified physical an d/or intellectual 
resources (e.g. laboratory and workshop equipment, laboratory instrument, IT resources and 
assistance of other APSIT Members) of APSIT as per prevailing rules notified by APSIT. 
• The definition of start-up considered for the purpose of this document will be as per the prevailing 
notifications of the Government of India from time to time. The current definition of start -up is an 
entity that is headquartered in India, which was incorporated less than ten years ago and has an 
annual turnover less than Rs. 100 crores. 
• The start -up formed by the faculty member/staff /student /Visitor would be promoted by the 
individuals and not by APSIT nor APSIT Udaan.  
• It has also to be ensured that no reputational or financial liabilities accrue to APSIT,  and the equity 
stake of APSIT Udaan (as agreed in the agreement between APSIT Udaan and the company) in the 
company is protected. 
• Participation in start -up related activities will be considered as a legitimate activity of faculty 
members in addition to teaching, conducting research, guiding researchers, providing industrial 
consultancy and completing management duties. The same will be considered while evaluating the 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 18 
 
annual performance of faculty members. Each faculty member is encouraged to mentor at le ast one 
start-up. 
• It should be noted however that the APSIT Member should take all possible steps to ensure that 
his/her duties and responsibilities as a member of APSIT take precedence over all other activities 
regardless of the nature of his/her engagement with the start-up. His/her engagement with the start-
up during regular work hours or on leave would be subject to the prior approval from the Institute’s 
competent authorities. The faculty member/student has to take prior permission from the Institute  
before associating with any business venture or starting a new venture, through a proper application 
process. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 19 
 
 
MODES OF ENGAGEMENT OF FACULTY MEMBERS WITH START-UPS 
a) Capital Investment by faculty members by way of shares in a start-up with no involvement: 
• An APSIT faculty member may be involved in a start -up by providing capital investment alone in 
return for shares with no other managerial, technical or mentorship role whatsoever. 
• If an APSIT faculty member makes a financial investment in a start-up or a company without making 
any contribution in the form of technical/consulting advice or any involvement of APSIT in the form of 
any commercial transaction or intellectual property or use of APSIT facilities, then such an investment 
will be treated as a private matter of the faculty member and of no concern to APSIT. 
• APSIT Udaan too will have no role to play in such instances. 
• The faculty member may however declare this to APSIT or to APSIT Udaan as a matter of good 
practice to avoid any conflict of interest situation. 
• If a start -up or any company awards a consultancy project to the APSIT faculty member, the 
prevailing APSIT rules and regulations for consultancy projects will apply. 
b) Part time engagement of faculty members in a start-up: 
• Faculty members are allowed to participate in a start-up on a part time basis as per prevailing APSIT 
norms. 
• The faculty member will prior seek approval of APSIT for engagement with a start-up on a part time 
basis as per prevailing APSIT rules. The faculty member must apply for approval for engagement with 
the start-up and the start -up must enter into an agreement with APSIT Udaan. Such an agreement 
should establish the mode of engagement of the faculty member with the start -up besides including 
the APSIT technology / Intellectual Property being licensed to the start-up. 
• With regard to the extent of time spent on such participation, the compensation to the faculty 
member may be in cash for which APSIT norms for consultancy projects will be applicable. 
• Alternately, the faculty member will be allowed to obtain shares of the start -up/company as 
compensation for engagement with the company in part or in full, in lieu of cash payment. In such 
cases the faculty member will offer a certain per centage of these shares to APSIT Udaan. The shares 
shall be transferred to APSIT Udaan on the same valuation terms. 
c) Full time engagement of faculty member in a start-up with availing of sabbatical and special leave 
(SPL) for setting up a start-up/pursuing entrepreneurship: 
• An APSIT faculty member may avail of either sabbatical or special Leave (SPL) of up to one year, 
extendable by another one year (i.e., maximum two years) as per prevailing APSIT rules and may work 
full time for the start-up. Permission will be initially given for six months and must be extended every 
six months therefrom. 
• The faculty member will prior seek approval of APSIT for the abovementioned sabbatical or SPL as 
the case may be in accordance with the prevailing APSIT rules. Permission for sabbatical or SPL would 
be decided by a three-member committee appointed for the same. 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 20 
 
• The faculty member must apply for approval for engagement with the start-up and the start-up must 
enter into an agreement with APSIT Udaan. Such an agreeme nt should establish the mode of 
engagement of the faculty member with the start -up besides including the APSIT technology / 
Intellectual Property being licensed to the start-up. 
• The faculty member will receive salary during sabbatical leave but will not receive any salary when 
he/she is on SPL. 
• During the period of SPL, the faculty member can receive compensation from the start -up in cash 
which need not be shared with APSIT as he/she will not be receiving any salary during this period. 
However, in the case where the faculty member is on a sabbatical leave and receives compensation 
then APSIT, norms for consultancy projects will be applicable and he/she will be required to share a 
certain percentage as per the then prevailing norms. 
• However, when on SPL, if the compensation received from the start-up is related to any work done 
in APSIT then APSIT norms for consultancy projects will be applicable and he/she will be required to 
share a certain percentage as per the then prevailing norms. This will also apply to those on sabbatical 
leave. 
• Faculty member on SPL will be allowed to obtain shares of the start-up/company as compensation 
for engagement with the company in part or in full, in lieu of cash payment. He/she will however not 
be required to share any  part of these shares with APSIT as he/she will not be receiving any salary 
during this period. 
• However, if this compensation is related to any work done in APSIT, then APSIT norms for 
consultancy projects will be applicable and the faculty member on SPL  will be required to share a 
certain percentage of shares with APSIT Udaan as per the then prevailing norms. The shares shall be 
transferred to APSIT Udaan on the same valuation terms. 
• Faculty member on sabbatical leave too will be allowed to obtain shares of the start-up/company as 
compensation for engagement with the company in part or in full, in lieu of cash payment. He/she will 
however be required to share a certain percentage of shares with APSIT Udaan as per the then 
prevailing norms irrespective of whether it is related to any work done at APSIT or not as he will be 
receiving salary also during this period. The shares shall be transferred to APSIT Udaan on the same 
valuation terms. 
• The faculty member after completing his sabbatical or SPL will re -join APSIT. Post this, no 
compensation is due to APSIT as long as the involvement of the member, for which the compensation 
was paid, completely ceases after the leave period. 
• Faculty member may continue to involve with the start-up as shareholder on re-joining APSIT after 
sabbatical or SPL. 
• In case the faculty member is involved as a mentor, consultant or any other form other than a 
shareholder after sabbatical or SPL, then rules applicable will be same as that of part-time engagement 
listed below. 
 
 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 21 
 
 
MODES OF ENGAGEMENT FOR RESEARCH SCHOLARS AND STUDENTS WITH START-UPS 
a) Part time engagement of research scholars and students in a start-up: 
• An APSIT research scholar/student can seek permission from APSIT to work for a start-up on a part-
time basis as per prevailing APSIT rules. 
• A research scholar/student must apply for approval for engagement with a start-up and the start-up 
must enter into an agreement with APSIT Udaan. Such an agreement should establish the mode of 
engagement of the research scholar/student with the start-up besides including the APSIT Technology 
/ Intellectual Property being licensed to the start-up. 
• With regard to the extent of time spent on such participation, the compensation to the research 
scholar/student may be in cash for which APSIT norms for consultancy projects will be applicable only 
to research scholars and not to students. 
• Alternately, the research scholar/student will be allowed to obtain shares of the start -up as 
compensation for the engagement with the company in part or in full, in lieu of cash payment. In such 
cases research scholars will offer a certain percentage of these shares to APSIT Udaan. The shares shall 
be transferred to APSIT Udaan on the same valuation terms. Students will not be required to share  
any percentage of his/her shares with APSIT Udaan. 
• The research scholar/student will have to satisfy all norms including attendance requirements for 
his/her program of study in order to earn a degree. 
b) Full time engagement of research scholars and students with a start-up 
• An APSIT research scholar/student can seek permission from APSIT to take Special Leave (SPL) for a 
up to one year, extendable by another one year (i.e., maximum of two years) as per prevailing APSIT 
rules and may work full time for the start-up. 
• The research scholar/student must apply for approval for engagement with start -up and the start-
up must enter into an agreement with APSIT Udaan. Such an agreement should establish the mode of 
engagement of the APSIT member with the start -up besides including the APSIT Technology / 
Intellectual Property being licensed to the start-up. 
• Research scholar/student will not receive any fellowship when he/she is on SPL. 
• During the period of SPL, the Research scholar/student can receive compensation from the start-up 
in cash which need not be shared with APSIT as he/she will not be receiving any fellowship during the 
period. 
However if the compensation is related to any work done in APSIT, then APSIT norms for consultancy 
projects will be applicable only to research scholars and not to students, and will be required to share 
a certain percentage as per the then prevailing norms. 
• Alternately, the research scholar/student will be allowed to obtain shares of the start-up/company 
as compensation for engagement with the company in part or in full, in lieu of cash payment. Again, 
he/she will not need to share any part of these shares with APSIT as he/she will not be receiving any 
fellowship during this period. 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 22 
 
However if this compensation is related to any work done in APSIT, then APSIT norms for consultancy 
projects will be applicable to research scholars and not to students and will be required to share a 
certain percentage of shares with APSIT Udaan as per the then prevailing norms. The shares shall be 
transferred to APSIT Udaan on the same valuation terms. 
• The research scholar/student, on returning, has to satisfy all norms including attendance 
requirements for his/her program of study in order to earn a degree. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 23 
 
 
GUIDELINES FOR EQUITY SHARING  BETWEEN START-UPS OF FACULTY MEMBERS/ST UDENT WITH 
APSIT UDAAN 
• In return of services and facilities, APSIT Udaan may take 2% to 9.5% equity stake in the start -
up/company, based on brand used, faculty contribution, support provided and  use of Institute’s IPR. 
(A limit of 9.5% is suggested so that APSIT Udaan or APSIT has no legal liability arising out of start-up. 
APSIT Udaan will normally take much lower equity share, unless its full -time APSIT member has a 
substantial share). Other factors for consideration will be space, infrastructure, mentorship support, 
seed funds, support for accounts, legal advice, patents, etc. 
• It is expected that APSIT Udaan will take no more than 20% of shares that APSIT member takes while 
drawing full salar y from the Institute; however, this share will be within the 9.5% cap of company 
shares mentioned above. 
• There will be no rest riction on shares that APSIT members can take, as long as they do not spend 
more than 50 man-days in a year of office time on the start-up in advisory or consultative role and do 
not compromise with their existing academic and administrative work/duties. 
• In case of a largely equity model, the start-up may be given a cooling period of one year extendable 
by another one year (i.e., maximum two years) or until the time of the first investment by an external 
investor, whichever is earlier, to use incubation services on rental basis and to take a final decision for 
sharing of equity based on services offered by APSIT-Udaan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 24 
 
 
GUIDELINES REGARDING INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (IP) RIGHTS 
An APSIT member, while on duty or on leave, may be involved in the creation of IP either solely or in 
association with a start -up or a company. The definition of IP will include, but is not limited to, 
inventions/innovations (whether patentable or not), invention/innovation disclosures, trademarks, 
trade secrets, know -how, proprietary information, technical data, documentation, data collections, 
databases, concepts, processes, prototypes, software, d esigns, drawings, names, symbols, images, 
materials, biological material, plant genetic material, support services and the like, whether or not the 
foregoing are in tangible or intangible form, which enable people to earn recognition and financial 
benefit. 
• If such an IP is created with the involvement of the APSIT member, then any contract between 
APSIT/APSIT Udaan and the start -up specifying the sharing rights for the IP will hold good on terms 
defined either in terms of equity in the start-up and/or license fees and/or royalty to obviate the early 
stage financial burden. License fees could be either/or a mix of 
a) Equity shares in the company licensing the product 
b) Upfront fees or one-time technology transfer fees 
c) Royalty as a percentage of sales 
In the absence of such a contractual obligation, the prevailing APSIT IPR Policy, Rules and Regulations 
will apply. 
• In case an APSIT member develops an IP (both during part -time association or while on leave) at a 
start-up or company which leverages prior IP developed at APSIT, the member must ensure the prior 
IP is properly licensed by the start -up. In the absence of such a contractual obligation, the prevailing 
APSIT IPR Policy, Rules and Regulations will apply. 
• The same will apply on the APSIT member’s retirement/superannuation/change of job. 
• In the event the start -up or company uses any “know -how” for business purpose, which has not 
been secured through any IP registration application, the faculty member has to disclose the source 
and origin of such “know-how”. 
• In case the start -up or company to which the IP has been licensed to further sublicenses the same 
to any other entity, then the licensing revenue generated by the said company will be distributed 
among the inventors and APSIT/APSIT Udaan as per the extant IPR Policy of the Institute. 
• If product/IPR is developed by faculty members/students not using any Institute facilities, outside 
office hours or not as a part of the curriculum by students, then product/IPR will be entirely owned by 
inventors in proportion to the contributions made by them. In this case, inventors can decide to license 
the technology to third parties or use the technology the way they deem fit. 
• If there is a dispute in ownership of IPR or matters related to IPR, a committe e, consisting of two 
faculty members (having developed sufficient IPR and translated to commercialization), two of the 
Institute’s alumni/industry experts (having experience in technology commercialization) and one legal 
advisor with experience in IPR matters, will examine the issue after meeting the concerned parties to 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 25 
 
help them settle the same. The Institute can appoint alumni/faculty members of other institutes as 
members, if sufficiently experienced Institute alumni/faculty members are not available. 
• The start-up or company may be permitted to use the laboratory and other such facilities to which 
the founding faculty member(s) is/are entitled and allowed with a clearly defined conflict of interest 
policy. The company may also use other facilities of t he Institute on payment basis as per prevailing 
norms. In addition, to ensure safety and security of all concerned, all compliances and procedures for 
laboratory usage should be strategically adhered to. 
• If any IP is generated by the start -up during thei r course of incubation, the information about its 
filing and status of IP application should be provided to APSIT for records and information. 
The above points on IP explain the policy framework in general. For more details, please refer to APSIT 
IPR Policy document. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 26 
 
 
GUIDELINES REGARDING  NON-DISCLOSURE AGRE EMENTS, INDEMNIFICAT ION, ARBITRATION & 
DISPUTE RESOLUTION 
a) Confidentiality 
It is understood that all APSIT members will undertake to sign suitable non -disclosure undertakings 
wherever sharing of any confidential material is involved with external parties on behalf of APSIT or 
themselves and submit a copy of the same to APSIT. 
b) Indemnification 
APSIT Members shall indemnify and keep fully indemnified APSIT , its affiliates , direct ors and 
employees from and against all direct losses, liabilities, penalties, interests, actions, proceedings, 
claims, demands, costs (including without prejudice to the generality of this provision, the legal costs) 
awards and damages arising directly as a result of, the following but not limited to (i) any breach or 
non-performance by the APSIT members and / or Core Team of any of their undertakings, 
representations, warranties or obligations (ii) fraud, gross negligence or wilful misconduct by them, 
their company and/or Core Team; or (iii) claims arising out of Material Breach. 
c) Governing Law and Arbitration 
This policy document and all procedures outlined by APSIT based on this Policy document shall be 
governed by and construed in accordance with the Laws of the India, without giving effect to its choice 
of laws rules and shall be submitted to the exclusive jurisdiction of the competent Courts of Mumbai. 
d) Arbitration & Dispute Resolution 
• If any dispute arises between the Parties hereto during the su bsistence of this Policy document or 
thereafter, in connection with the validity, interpretation, implementation or alleged breach of any 
provision of this Policy, the Parties hereto shall endeavour to settle such dispute amicably through 
mutual discussion among the Parties in dispute. 
• In the event the Parties are unable to resolve the dispute through mutual discussions shall be 
resolved by binding arbitration conducted by a sole arbitrator appointed under the provisions of the 
Indian Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 and the rules made thereunder, 
• No arbitrator chosen shall be related to, employed by or otherwise affiliated with any Party, or any 
of their relatives or affiliates. 
• The arbitration proceedings shall be conducted in English, and in M umbai. The decision and award 
of the arbitrator shall be in writing and in English, and final and binding on all the Parties to this 
Agreement. 
• The arbitrator in his or her final arbitral award shall determine the final allocation of the costs of 
arbitration. 
• The award shall be binding on the Parties subject to the Applicable Laws in force and the award shall 
be enforceable in court of law in Mumbai. 
 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 27 
 
CONFLICT OF INTEREST 
APSIT is keen to encourage its faculty members, research scholars and students t o convert their 
innovations and new ideas into commercial ventures for personal, institutional and social benefits. 
However, when doing this, complexities surrounding actual and potential conflict of interests are 
expected to arise, especially in the conte xt of their commitment to APSIT, student education and 
objective research, as well as their obligations to society. For them to benefit from education and 
research, a fine line has to be drawn between using Institute resources for Institute activities and for 
personal economic interests. 
When an individual holds two positions in different roles and when he/she tries to use a position for 
personal satisfaction of his/her aspirations in another, a situation of conflict   of interest arises. This 
could be as simple as employees of APSIT Udaan exploring equity stakes in start -ups incubated on a 
selective basis (cherry picking). 
Care must be taken to clearly separate the personal financial aspects of the entrepreneurial activities 
of faculty members, research sch olars and students from their respective roles, duties and 
responsibilities at APSIT and should be consistent with the value system of APSIT. Similarly, the use of 
APSIT facilities and equipment must be free from unauthorized and conflicting uses and must be 
suitably compensated for as per the policies of APSIT. Appropriate judgement should be applied by all 
concerned parties, the faculty members, research scholars, students, APSIT Udaan employees and 
associates besides the incubated start-ups, their promoters, employees and staff. 
Typical Conflict of Interest Situations 
A few situations leading to conflicts of interest are given below. These are not exhaustive and only 
representative for guidance to all stakeholders. 
• All stakeholders may come in possession of proprietary and confidential information. Recipients of 
such information should make all efforts to preserve the confidentiality of such information and not 
disclose or use it for their personal and other benefit without explicit approval of the disclosing party. 
• Use of APSIT students or employees to perform work for a start-up without any compensation when 
the work is not related in any way to their academic pursuits. 
• Use of APSIT facilities for the benefit of a start -up without proper permissions /arrangements and 
where he/she is an interested person. 
• Procuring consultancy research assignments and business in the name of APSIT and outsourcing the 
same to the start-up in which he/she is an interested person. 
• Influence policy decisions of APSIT o r APSIT Udaan with an intention to benefit a start -up in which 
he/she is an interested person. 
• Influence department decision to procure specific laboratory equipment, which could benefit a start-
up in which he/she is an interested person. 
• Act in any manner to benefit the start-up at a disadvantage of APSIT or APSIT Udaan. 
• Neglecting their commitments to APSIT for their association with supported entities. 
• Differential pricing of shares in the same round in a start -up for faculty members/research 
scholars/student vis-à-vis APSIT Udaan. 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 28 
 
Council for Scientific & industrial Research (CSIR) has issued a comprehensive list of “Possible 
Conflict” examples. Those which are applicable to APSIT are reproduced below as additional 
representative situations for guidance of APSIT members: 
1. Relationships that might enable APSIT members to influence APSIT’s interactions with outside 
organizations in ways that may lead to personal gain, to the taking of improper advantage by anyone, 
or the improper diversion of APSIT’s assets including the time and talents of its faculty members, staff 
and researchers. 
2. Situations where an APSIT member directs students (including fellow members, other trainees or 
guest workers) into a research area or other activity from which the member intends to realize 
personal financial gain. For example: projects sponsored by a for -profit business in which he/she, a 
member of his/her family or an associated entity holds an equity or similar ownership interest. 
3. A conflict   may also arise if  students are directed to areas of lesser scientific or scholarly merit to 
enhance the potential for monetary gain or if the financial potential exists only for the APSIT member 
or the use of students, without recompense from salary or academic credit, for  work on behalf of an 
outside agency. 
4. Transmission to any entity or individual or any unauthorized use of the information, records, results, 
materials, or work product, etc. which have been acquired through research at APSIT or through 
studies conducted on behalf of private and public bodies by APSIT for the private gain of the APSIT 
member particularly when such results/reports are not made generally available. 
5. Disclosure or use for personal gain or any unauthorized purpose of privileged information acquired 
in connection with APSIT member’s official activities. Such information, for example, might include 
knowledge (prior to general announcement) of discoveries or inventions made by other faculty 
members; knowledge of impending private or public poli cy changes; possible new sites for 
government installations; knowledge of impending research or development programs in advance of 
official announcements or assisting outside organizations by giving them access to such information 
except as may be authorized by APSIT rules/Government policies. 
6. Consultation that imposes obligations that conflict   with APSIT’s IP Policy or with APSIT’s obligations 
to research sponsors. 
7. An APSIT member receiving financial compensation for conducting research externally that would 
ordinarily be conducted within APSIT (particularly situations where a substantial body of research that 
could and ordinarily would be conducted by the APSIT member within APSIT is directed elsewhere) or 
some APSIT members may have economic inter ests in companies. Such economic interests are of 
consulting or other engagements undertaken by the APSIT member under the aegis of the company 
that might reasonably be performed through APSIT as part of the APSIT member’s normal duties. 
8. Situations where an APSIT member is offered research support from an organization in which the 
member serves as a director, a member of an advisory board, or as a consultant, or in which the 
member holds a significant equity position. 
9. Situations where the APSIT member occupies a position in a company doing business in the area of 
the member’s official responsibility which is related to that field i.e., the company’s activities compete 
with those of APSIT. 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 29 
 
10. Situations where the member is involved in independent business ventures as owner, operator or 
major investor, particularly if that entity is doing business with APSIT. 
11. Undertaking or orientation of research to serve the needs of a company in which the individual 
has an economic interest. 
12. Participation by a n APSIT member in Institute decisions to purchase research -related goods or 
services from a company in which the individual has an economic interest. 
13. Negotiation or influence upon the negotiation of contracts between APSIT and outside 
organizations with which an APSIT member has consulting or other significant relationships. 
14. Hiring of close relatives by APSIT members in conducting sponsored research, consulting 
assignments or any related activity in APSIT or any entity associated with APSIT irrespective of whether 
any monetary compensation is paid or not for such participation. 
15. APSIT as an institution possesses both tangible assets, such as its buildings and equipment, 
research materials like biological materials, chemical samples, prototype devi ces and equipment, 
circuit diagrams, computer software and databases and intangible assets, such as different forms of 
IP as well as its repute and prestige. APSIT members hold custody of the bulk of these assets and must 
be conscious of the fiduciary duty this entails. The misuse of these assets for personal benefit or use 
of these assets and resources in sponsored research or in consulting by an APSIT member without 
referring to the appropriate official the question whether appropriate costs should be defrayed by the 
outside agency. 
16. APSIT members are often called upon to act as consultants in the professions, to advice on the 
conduct of research, or to give expert testimony before a court of law. Such experts may find 
themselves in the employ of severa l clients whose interests are competitive in nature. All types of 
conflicts to which attention was called in the foregoing points are potentially present here as well. For 
example, an APSIT member may well be consulted with regard to equipment needed for a laboratory 
installation to be operated by a client agency and may thus have to choose among suppliers of 
equipment in some of whom he or she has a substantial interest. 
17. APSIT members very often act as expert members/advisors/consultants to one or more  
government agencies. These positions present special problems with regard to conflicts of interest, 
even when the APSIT member holds no government-sponsored research grant or contract. When one 
is a consultant, direct monetary involvement is but one type of problem that can arise. Care must be 
taken to avoid giving advice that may be of questionable objectivity because of its possible bearing on 
the APSIT member’s other interests. Secondly, any decision that is likely to benefit the private entity 
raises a needle of suspicion. For example, if an APSIT member is a consultant to a pharmaceutical firm 
and he/she is also a member of a Government committee to fix the prices of essential drugs and if 
that decision is going to benefit the said firm. Similarly the APSIT member might be asked to evaluate 
proposals for new technology evaluation/financing of a new venture or conduct investigation for 
compliance of government rules by a firm in which he or she has a significant interest, or in which 
close friends or immediate family have interests. 
18. Very often APSIT members act as consultants to industry and/or perform sponsored research for 
industry and also serve on a committee of an industrial trade association and that association uses the 
expertise of the APSIT m ember/goodwill of APSIT to influence or lobby government agencies. The 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 30 
 
situation is particularly objectionable if an APSIT member or his/her family member or an associated 
entity have a financial interest in any business which operates in the industry. 
19. An APSIT member publishing or formally presenting research results, or providing expert 
commentary on a subject without simultaneously disclosing any financial Interest relating to such 
results or such subject. 
20. It is improper for a member of APSIT to accept benefits or favours from outside organizations with 
which the APSIT does or may conduct business, or to extend benefits or favours to employees of the 
outside organizations under circumstances which might reasonably be interpreted as an attempt to 
influence the recipients in the conduct of their duties. For example: receipt of any kind of shares in a 
company during private placement or from director’s quota. 
21. An APSIT member taking administrative action within APSIT which is beneficial to a busine ss in 
which he/she has a financial interest. 
22. Associating one’s name or one’s work with the APSIT in such a way as to profit monetarily by 
trading on the repute of the Institution, rather than on one’s professional competence. 
23. Speaking or acting or writing as a private person in such a way as to create the impression that one 
speaks for APSIT. 
GUIDELINES FOR MANAGEMENT OF CONFLICT OF INTEREST 
Following guidelines are suggested for APSIT members: 
• Obtaining appropriate approvals in advance 
• Disclosure of conflict situations 
• Abstain from participating in a decision-making process involving such situations 
• Immediate reporting of the breach of policy 
• Disputes should be reported to the appropriate notified authorities of APSIT and APSIT Udaan 
Resolution of Conflicts 
• In situations in which the objectivity of an APSIT member, due to his/her association with a start-up 
or company could reasonably be questioned, the Management Committee of APSIT may establish an 
independent committee to investigate th e operation of the start -up/company and possible conflict   
of interest between the functioning of the start -up/company and the responsibilities towards APSIT 
of the APSIT member associated with the company. The APSIT member may appeal to the Board of 
Directors of the Institute for a review of the committee’s decisions. The decision of the Board, in this 
regard, would be final. 
• In case of a conflict situation, APSIT expects the concerned people to disclose all information 
regarding the conflict of interes t in a transparent manner to the Institute and other relevant 
stakeholders. The disclosed information will be evaluated for the genuineness of conflicting interests 
by the relevant committee/stakeholders using appropriate judgment. The committee will discuss and 
try to resolve disputes over conflict of interest in such cases, and the decision should be duly approved 
by the competent authority. 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 31 
 
 
WITHDRAWAL OF SUPPORT 
 
APSIT reserves the right to withdraw its support to any Start-up that it engages with, following a due 
process of notice. This may involve withdrawal of access to APSIT’s facilities, and/or withdrawal of 
permission to APSIT Member to engage further with the Start-up in any manner, though they and the 
APSIT Udaan can continue to hold the shares they already possess in the Start-up. It will also involve 
withdrawal of the status of the Start-up as a Company, from which point the Start-up will be required 
to desist from advertising itself as such thereafter. Should the need arise; the APSIT Udaan ma y also 
seek modifications to the agreement signed with the Start -up through an amendment, in order to 
protect APSIT’s fair name and its interests. 
 
 
PROTECTION OF APSIT’S FAIR NAME 
 
When a Start-up is designated as a Company, it is permitted to advertise itself as such wherever such 
advertisement is appropriate. However, such advertising carries with it the risk that in case the 
Company indulges in improper behaviour or dealings, APSIT’s fair name will be tarnished by 
association with the Company. 
In order to protect itself from such risks, APSIT, through the APSIT Udaan, may seek a seat on the 
Board of the Company, without liability, in order to ensure transparency in all its dealings. The APSIT 
Udaan may seek access to the un-audited and audited balance sheets of the Company. In certain cases, 
the APSIT Udaan may even seek visibility of payments above a specified value made by the Company, 
before such payments are made. All such requirements will be specified in the agreement that will be 
entered into by the APSIT Udaan with the Company. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 32 
 
SELECTION AND EXIT POLICY FOR INCUBATEES 
 
Provide selection criteria of the incubatee and the mechanism 
 
Selection criteria to select Incubatees  
a) Viable Product / Service:  
Incubates have a viabl e product / service, acquired reference customers, a sound business plan for 
gaining traction, understanding of investment requirement, and a robust set of co-founders. 
b) Pre-incubation support obtained or attracted seed capital:  
Having gone through pre -incubation process, acquired seed capital and sold product / service to 
customers 
c) Addressing profound problem / needs / gaps:  
The incubate solution addresses a real life and compelling problem, needs or gaps, existing or 
unfolding one (not perceived but can get traction). 
d) Innovation: A combination of two or more aspects of new technology, component, gadgets, goods, 
products, process or marketing are required to establish an innovation. This shall set the solution apart 
from existing or no existing solutions vs-a-vis competition. 
e) Impact:  
1. Business angle: innovation, market, scalability, replicability and business sustainability.  
2. Social angle: job creation, wealth generation / distribution, skill building and expanding 
entrepreneurship;  
3. En vironment angle: least or no impact on environ, inclination to build green processes – 
procurement, production, and marketing; and  
4. Economic angle: adopting circular / replacement economic process to reduce, reuse, recycle and 
reprocess. 
 
f) Social / Impact ventures:  
Innovative social ventures that has identified a core product or service to improve wellbeing of people, 
society and environment will be encouraged. A minimum of 30% of selected incubatee will be setting 
up social / impact ventures. 
g) Team Strength:  
Successful applicants shall demonstrate a start-up thinking: leadership skills to bootstrap a venture in 
a resource constrained scenario, vision, intelligence, risk taking, problem solving, resilience, curiosity, 
responsiveness, follow through, working as a team, found a co -founder and known each other and 
worked on the idea for at least one year, inclusive and holistic perspective and flair for technology. On 
admission, the incubate will be encouraged to imbibe these qualities. 
h) Implementation:  
Performative competence, the ability of the team to execute the big vision and overcome obstacles is 
a requirement to graduate from incubation program. Applicants must provide the required details and 
proposal for making an admission in the Incubator. Applications for admission to Incubator will be 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 33 
 
made in the name of registered (unlisted) companies within the meaning of the Companies Act, 1956. 
If a company has not been registered, an application may be made in the names of all promoters/ 
founders; however, the promoters/ founders shall be encouraged to register a company once the 
market fit for the product/service is established. 
 
Selection criteria to Provide Seed Fund (but not limited to the following): 
 
 Is amount of funding requested enough to reach critical milestone? 
 Does the venture have a clear, potentially significant/singular value proposition? 
 How big/fast growing is the potential market? 
 Are target customers clearly identified? 
 How credible is the technology? (Is PoC credible in the opinion of domain experts?) 
 Are there regulatory/certification/policy risks? 
 What are the sources of sustainable competitive advantage ( e.g. novelty, patentability, fair 
assessment of competitors' product/technology etc.)? 
 What is the quality of the business plan ( revenue model, product roadmap, market segments, 
etc.)? 
 
Proposed Terms for Seed Funding: 
 
 Investment mode: Equity ownership in a private limited company 
 Equity stake for seed fund: 15% - 25% 
 Investment amount: Rs 2 Lakhs - 50 Lakhs 
 Investment to be deployed in instalments, tied to significant milestones 
 Board of Directors (BoD) representation: 1 BoD seat 
 Promoter/Founder stakes: Vesting requirements 
 Reporting: Bi-annual presentation to Seed Committee + Quarterly/Annual Financials 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 34 
 
 
DESCRIBE THE EXIT STRATEGY 
 
1. Setting a maximum time limit of 3 years (Average Expected Timeline for Graduation: 36-48 
Months) 
2. Incentives to exit (Based on the requirements of space for new Incubatees and maturity 
level/satisfactory progress monitoring etc., Incentives to exit will be decided)  
3. Non-performance of the incubatees (Continuous monitoring and evaluation will reveal the 
progress of Incubatees in meeting the milestones as envisaged. Non -performing Incubatees will 
be vacated as per the terms and opport unities will be provided to other needy aspirants as 
recommended by the expert Committee) 
 
Incubate companies will leave the Incubator under the following circumstances: 
 
1. If they raised substantial investment from Angel Investor / Venture Capital Fund / an y other 
investor– Rs. 2 Crores or more. 
2. If the Incubatee become self -sustainable (technically/financially) to further proceed with their 
business for soft landing 
3. Completion of stay for twelve to eighteen months (as agreed, in case of ICT/IT/ITES Start -ups), 
unless the stay is extended by APSIT Udaan based on the request/need of the Start-ups. 
4. Underperformance or it is not viable for the business proposition: criteria for the same will be 
decided and applied by APSIT Udaan based on the decision of the Evalu ation Committee on the 
case to case basis. 
5. When the number of employees of the company exceeds 20. However, more than 20 seats will be 
considered if the cost of each seat will be borne by the Incubatee or on mutually agreeable terms. 
6. Change in promoters'/ founders' team without concurrence of APSIT Udaan. 
7. Any other reasons including the violation of rules and regulations of the APSIT which APSIT Udaan 
may deem it necessary for an incubate company to leave APSIT Udaan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 35 
 
 
ENTREPRENEURIAL ECOSYSTEM (LOCAL AND INSTITUTE) 
An entrepreneurial ecosystem  is the social and economic environment affecting local or 
regional entrepreneurship. Businesses located within places serving as incubators for creativity, 
innovation, and entrepreneurship have a greater chance of success. According to Babson Global, the 
ecosystem has six parts: Culture, Markets, Human Capital, Finance, Supports, and Policy.  
APSIT IIC has a goal to coordinate, synergize and leverage the various strands of excellence driving 
innovation and entrepreneurship in a thriving ecosystem consisting of research at the cutting edge of 
science and technology, a highly successful body facilitating industrial interactions, and incubation in 
sectors such as rural technologies, industrial solutions and social impact. APSIT IIC supports members 
of the institute  including staff, students, alumni, faculty, and R&D partners, in creating successful 
business ventures that can translate benefits from technology and knowledge innovations to the 
society at large. 
International Partnerships / Stude nt exchange program/Faculty FDP / Pre incubation/Incubation 
facility at the institute  
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CELL (R&D Cell) 
A. P. Shah Institute of Technology has promoted meaningful scientific industrial Research and 
Development activities with a vision and mission to pursue and promote Research in Frontier 
Technologies as well as in the various disciplines of Engineering.   
For any education, specifically technical education, the basic model of a ‘teaching – only’ institution is 
inadequate to ensure quality education. In all disciplines of technical education, knowledge is dynamic 
with new technologies being introduced very frequently. In this scenario, it is not possible for the 
teachers to deliver good quality instructions without being tuned to the current developments in the 
subjects, for which they must constantly update their knowledge. A well-recognized way to deal with 
this paradigm is for the teachers to be active researchers in the areas in which they interested. As  
researchers, they need to understand the past and recent developments in their subject areas. 
Research and Development cell was established at APSIT to inculcate research and innovative skills 
among faculty and students. R&D Cell provides a platform for c reativity and innovation to flourish 
young minds in Institute. Innovative breakthroughs will happen only because of meticulous efforts of 
R&D. The Institute provides SEED amount to facilitate basic common research infrastructure for 
individuals to execute collaborative work.  
APSIT R&D cell is a nominated committee consisting of Professors from various programs of 
Engineering. This committee oversees the smooth and efficient coordination of research and 
development activities in the Institute, thus fosterin g overall growth. The organizational structure 
consists of Advisor, Principal, Dean and Coordinators for facilitating the routine functioning of the cell.   
Objectives R&D Cell 
 To foster scientific temper.  
 To generate innovative ideas on academic and societal problems 
 To Encourage, Coordinate And Implement Research And Development Programs 
(workshops/ seminar/ trainings) 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 36 
 
 To create awareness on evolving technologies and industrial standards for products.  
 Provide scope for faculty and students to work on latest evolving technologies with industry 
standards through consultancy projects. 
 To identify and inform researchers about the appropriate research opportunities announced 
by different academic, research, industry or government organisations. 
 To encourage and facilitate the publication of the research work/projects in reputed 
academic journals and reputed conferences 
 To prepare and implement a research quality assurance mechanism for ensuring that all 
research activities of the college conform to standard quality specifications. 
 To develop, prescribe and administer rules and regulations to ensure the compliance of all 
researchers to the research quality assurance framework and the research code. 
 To encourage Core Competence and Consultancy work 
 To create awareness about filing Patents & IPR 
 
R & D Cell Main Activities 
 Assists faculty, research scholars and students in filing research proposals for grants from 
various funding agencies like DST, AAPSITE, and MHRD etc. 
 Allocates funds for in-house R & D projects of the faculty, research scholars and students. 
 Assists the faculty, research scholars and students in filing of IPRs like patents and copy 
rights. 
 Creating awareness and motivating researchers to work in emerging domains of engineering 
and technology. 
 
Initiatives taken to inculcate the spirit of research amongst faculty and students are as Follows 
 
A Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Cell (IEDC) 
Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Cell (IEDC) is establ ished to cultivate an 
entrepreneurial culture in APSIT and to foster the techno entrepreneurship for generation of wealth 
and employment by APSITIANS. The IEDC helps the student community to conduct the research work 
and survey for identifying entrepreneur ial opportunities. The main objective of promoting an 
entrepreneurship among the youth is to nurture the passion for self -employment. This will open the 
gates for the creation of a new knowledge -based innovative hi-tech ventures, industries and a new 
breed of techno entrepreneurs and more avenues of employment opportunities, thus turning the job 
seekers into the job creators and in this process, leading a nation towards the industrial excellence 
and the self -reliance. The Innovation and Entrepreneurship Dev elopment Cell of this college aims 
towards achieving the above. 
Objectives of Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Cell (IEDC) 
• To motivate, support and mentor students to become ent repreneurs for identification, 
development and commercialization of their innovative ideas 
• To create awareness on entrepreneurship among the students. 
• To inculcate entrepreneurial spirit and culture of innovation driven entrepreneurship among 
the students 
• To organize Entrepreneurship Awareness Camps, Entrepreneurship Development 
Programmes (Business Plan Competitions/Innovation Camps/ Hackathons/ guest lectures 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 37 
 
/Seminars etc.) and Faculty Development Programmes with active involvement of industry 
and alumni 
• To conduct research work and survey for identifying entrepreneurial opportunities  
• To provide various services including information on all aspects of enterprise building, such as 
preparing project reports, obtaining project approvals, loans and  facilities from agencies of 
support systems and information on various technologies to budding student entrepreneurs  
• To initiate innovative student projects each year for innovative product development. 
• To arrange interaction with entrepreneurs, bank ers, professionals, potential customers and 
create a mentorship scheme for student innovators/entrepreneurs. 
• To act as a Regional Information Centre on business opportunities, processes, technologies, 
market etc. by creating and maintaining relevant data bases. 
• To facilitate creation of entrepreneur’s club / E -Cells in the college to foster culture of 
entrepreneurship amongst students  
• To foster better linkages between the Institution, Industries and R&D institutions in the region 
and other related or ganizations engaged in promoting Small & Medium Enterprises (SMEs) 
including NGOs and other Voluntary Organisations. 
• To catalyse and promote development of knowledge-based and innovation-driven enterprises 
and promote employment opportunities amongst youth specially students 
• To respond effectively to the emerging challenges and opportunities both at national and 
international level relating to SMEs and Micro Enterprises. 
• To provide need-based consultancy services to industries. 
• To channelize the kno wledge and energy of youth towards becoming active partners in the 
economic development process. 
B Research Publications: 
As a result of tireless efforts taken in the research activities, the college has to its credit many research 
publications in National and International peer reviewed Journals. The faculty members have also 
presented research papers in various reputed national and international conferences. The total  ---- 
research papers have published during academic Year 20 ---- to 20 ---, out of which ------- research 
papers have been published in journals and remaining have been published in conferences. 
C Research Projects: 
One of the important criteria to judge t he performance of research output of the institution is to 
obtain recognition by reputed Government/Autonomous sponsoring agencies towards generation of 
funds to conduct quality research. The institute would attempt to receive a number of research grants 
from agencies like DST, AAPSITE, IEI, DRDO, CSIR etc. in near future.  In addition to this, APSIT has also 
encouraged the faculty members to initiate research by giving the seed money to undertake various 
minor research projects.  
D Ph. D. Programs: 
Quality engineering education coupled with innovative research and development is absolutely 
essential towards the overall faculty development. The APSIT encourages higher education of faculty 
members to keep abreast of continuous technological development. Accor dingly Institute promotes 
participation of faculty in innovative research by providing a conducive environment, necessary 
facilities and motivation. 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 38 
 
 
PREINCUBATION  
To have your own Start-up you need to know the “Technical know-how” of today's industry. Here we 
provide such a pre -incubation centre for students to develop, evolve, and learn from their m istakes 
and progress. Pre -incubator can be defined as a risk -reduced environment where entrepreneurial 
ideas are pre-filtered for market viability thus helping to avoid greater costs and failures of setting up 
new company in the further phases of business development. Besides equity gap lack of pre -seed 
finance is critical to promote business ideas into new innovative firms. In addition to inspiration and 
awareness inventors of new business ideas need professional couching to turn in new firm and follow-
up services (consultations, mentoring, infrastructure) until it is ready to pass the entrance criteria of 
Business world. Without support inventors often fail before or after setting firm. 
Support through Pre-incubation facilities-   
A. R&D Cell  - Research and Development cell was established at APSIT to inculcate research and 
innovative skills among faculty and stu dents. R&D Cell provides a platform for creativity and 
innovation to flourish young minds in organization. Innovative breakthroughs will happen only 
because of meticulous efforts of R&D. The organization provides SEED amount to facilitate basic 
common research infrastructure for individuals to execute collaborative work. 
B. Industry Institute Interaction cell (III Cell)  – To improve the quality of technical education 
adequately, to meet the needs of the Industry, society and economy, technical education system 
should operate at optimum efficiency and should produce good quality engineers who will deliver 
quality product to employers. To optimize the deployment of physical and human resources of 
Institutions and Industries in the pursuit of development of technic al manpower & to enlist 
participation of industry in technical education programs, with a view to have better interaction 
between Industries and Institute, APSIT has started Industry Institute Interaction Cell (IIIC). 
APSITSKILLS CENTER - APSIT skills is an initiative of Parshvanath Charitable Trust’s APSIT to provide 
training and international certification in the futuristic technologies under one roof for engineering 
graduates in India. APSIT Skills Center is an innovative model for teaching and learning  globally 
trending technologies to achieve the industrial objective through hands -on training. APSIT offers 
myriad ways of building engineering career through its strong industrial collaborations. College 
provides opportunities to master globally trending technologies of future at no extra cost. APSIT Skill 
Centre is presented as the most adequate educational methodology for the overall/all -round 
development of students. This skill centre is based on globally trending technologies, international 
certification, and industrial collaborations. Students will have hands-on experience, potentiating their 
personality and taking them closer to reality. 
INDUSTRY COLLABORATIONS WITH APSIT SKILL CENTER  
Following Globally trending technologies and industries are c ollaborated with APSIT Skill Centre 
department wise  
A. Computer Engineering/IT/ EXTC  
• NVIDIA Deep Learning Institute   
• Block-Chain Council Membership  
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 39 
 
• Redhat Linux Academy Centre  
• Open Source Experimental Lab  
• Oracle Academy  
• AWS Academy & AWS Educate  
• Dell EMC Academic Alliance  
• E-Yantra Robotics Lab  
• Texas Instruments Innovation Centre  
• CISCO Networking Academy  
• Partnership with Leading India  
• VMware IT Academy  
• SAP University Alliance 
• AYURUS Academy Excellence Centre 
• Google Sponsored Machine Learning  
• Game Development Club 
• Unit Game Development Academy Alliance  
• Palo Alto Netwroks Cybersecurity Academy 
• UiPath Academic Alliance  
• Corel Authorized Training Centre 
• Digital Marketing Academy 
• APSIT Academy 
• TMF Academy 
 
B. Mechanical Engineering  
• MSC Software Training Centre  
• Siemens Centre of Excellence  
• "Dassault Systems" CLIC Program  
• ANSYS Authorized Training Centre  
• Autodesk Hub  
• E-Yantra Robotics Lab  
• Texas Instruments Innovation Centre  
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 40 
 
• BMW Skill Next 
• CNC & VMC Training Academy 
• UiPath Academic Alliance 
• ICY Academy 
 
C. Civil Engineering  
• MSC Authorised Training Centre  
• Siemens Centre of Excellence  
• Bentley Institute Academic Program  
• Autodesk Hub 
• Oracle Academy  
• "Dassault Systems" CLIC Program  
• APSIT Academy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 41 
 
APSIT SKILLS LAB FACILITIES-   
1. AYRUS Centre of Academic Excellence & Innovation  
A.P. Shah Institute of Technology has recently signed a memorandum of Understanding with AYRUS 
Global. Through this MoU AYRUS Global recognizes AP Shah Institute of Technology as an Innovation 
Centre and Academic Excellence Center for AYRUS. Students will be able to use various Sensors, solar 
power based cameras, GPS trackers and home automation kits for their final year BE Project. The aim 
of this academic centre is to provide training to students on  
a. The installation and use of different types of cameras like IP based dome cameras, bullet 
cameras on the 4G network. 
b. Configuration installation & troubleshooting of Digital Video Recorder (DVR). 
c. Installation and application of solar power video doorbell, solar cameras 
d. Installation and use of body camera in the field of Robotics. 
e. Installation and application of various sensors like motion sensor, ceiling mount PIR sensor 
door sensor for home automation and smart home. 
f. Use of Fingerprint, RFID for recording attendance and use of CLOUD software for manpower 
services. 
g. Use of Audio & Video conferencing device. 
h. Installation and use of GPS tracker device on a vehicle. 
i. Installation and application of AI based Human Tracking Camera. 
 
2. ASHNIK Open Source Experimental Lab   
Open Source Experimental Lab for Emerging Technologies’  is a collaborative effort 
of APSIT and ASHNIK to impart skills in the areas of   open source technologies including D atabase, 
Docker, Elastic Stack Analytics, NGINX, and Cloud Computing to develop sufficient industry needed 
skills for students. Linux and Open Source are changing the face of computing. Companies large and 
small are embracing Linux and Open Source for many reasons, including cost, reliability, flexibility, and 
availability. Open Source Experimental Lab (OSE Lab) is well equipped with the latest servers. Guidance 
is provided to the students by a team of professors and committee members. The labs are kept open 
after the college hours to enable the students to engage themselves in getting practiced with 
Laboratory experiments in their leisure hours. The lab will be used to train the students to make 
experiments to get familiar with the emerging open source technologies. 
ASHNIK and APSIT  have collaborated to set up an “Open Source Experimental Lab for Emerging 
Technologies” Lab in the campus to help students and faculty members enhance their skills in areas 
of open source technologies including Database, Docker, Elastic Stack Analytics, NGINX, Cloud and 
Linux Platform. This lab aims at providing knowledge of emerging open source technologies and 
expose students to open source software’s. 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 42 
 
A joint committee has been formed comprising of professors, students, represe ntatives of  APSIT 
and ASHNIK that will continuously discuss on content, delivery etc. The Committee will monitor and 
review the activities under these program and will also mentor the participating students. While doing 
each program participant will have a ccess to various open source communities for participating in 
their projects on their interest and to get additional study material and resources to interact with 
experts & participate in discussions. 
 
3. Salesforce Student Chapter    
Salesforce is a custo mer relationship management solution that brings companies and customers 
together. Its one integrated CRM platform that gives all your departments — including marketing, 
sales, commerce, and service — a single, shared view of every customer. Deliver the pe rsonalised 
experiences your customers expect by using the integrated CRM platform that we call our Salesforce 
Customer 360 Platform. It provides powerful, connected products for improving your marketing, sales, 
commerce, service, IT, and more. When you buy  Salesforce, you’re not just buying a CRM platform; 
you’re joining an inclusive community of over 10 million innovators, disruptors, and community 
shapers we call Trailblazers. With free online learning from Trailhead, they’re learning the skills to 
improve their companies and careers. 
 
4. e-Yantra Robotics Lab   
To address futuristic needs of industrial automation, eYantra Robotics Lab (eYRL@APSIT) is setup in 
collaboration with IIT Bombay. eYRL facilitates Design and Development of Industrial Robotic 
Automation. Project e-Yantra is an initiative to spread education in embedded systems and Robotics 
by IIT Bombay. This program is sponsored by Ministry of Human Resource Development through the 
National Mission on Education through APSIT (NMEAPSIT). E-Yantra Lab Setup Initiative (eLSI) supports 
the infrastructure creation at colleges by providing a platform for training teachers both in theory and 
applications of Robotics. A. P. Shah Institute has established Robotics Lab under E-Yantra Lab with the 
help of eLSI. 
 
5. MAC Club  
The MAC is a club of students from the APSIT who design & fabricate solar based automotive which 
are operated by a DC motor. The purpose of the MAC club is to build up interest towards theoretical 
as well as practical knowledge, along with  management and team work among under graduate 
students. It gives students hands on experience in designing & manufacturing. The main aim of the 
club is to reduce the usage of organic fuel powered vehicles and design environment friendly electric 
power vehicles. 
 
6. Bennet University Times of India Group Partnership with Leading India  
APSIT has a tie up with an initiative by leadingindia.ai on AI and deep learning Skilling and Research 
which is in collaboration with technology giants like Bennett Universit y, Brunel University, IEEE 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 43 
 
computer society, AWS educate, UCL, and many more. It has the potential to change the landscape of 
AI Research in India. Students are provided with the certificates for the workshops and research group 
participations. All the training material required is made available to the students. Assessment of the 
working of the research groups via progress report, Skype Calls, Webinars is done in a professional 
manner. Various competitions in Deep learning are held for the students to give them a chance to put 
their work on display all the above -mentioned facilities are provided to APSIT students completely 
free of cost. Courses & Workshops: Every year college conducts introductory and advance certification 
courses for APSIT students. 
1. A Course on "AI and Deep learning" for students and faculties 
2. Machine learning Lab 
3. Two days Certification program by Bennett University 
 
7. 'Utter' Virtual Language Lab  
Utter gives learners access to a fun learning environment that aims at building confidence and giving 
people the opportunity to not only grow in their careers, but their personal lives as well. It’s now a lot 
easier (and a whole lot more fun) to improve your English speaking, reading, and writing skills – 
download Utter, and start the conversati on! Learn English with our Chabot for just 10 minutes each 
day, or learn from our teaching experts, and you’ll become more fluent and confident with the English 
language in no time.  
During the early stages of entrepreneurship, having the right environment  and the right network is 
highly important. The Pre -Incubation Programs gives a nascent entrepreneur the right platform to 
launch his /her idea and move forward to develop it into a marketable Minimum Viable Product (MVP). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 44 
 
 
INCUBATION FACILITITES - APSIT Uddan Incubation centre 
A start-up incubator is a col laborative program designed to help new start -ups succeed. Incubators 
help entrepreneurs solve some of the problems commonly associated with running a start -up by 
providing workspace, seed funding, mentoring, and training. The sole purpose of a start-up incubator 
is to help entrepreneurs grow their business. 
Usually business incubation is a process of nurturing and developing a new business idea and helping 
businesses to grow and survive. The incubator itself is an environment, either virtual or real, withi n 
which incubation takes place. The following infrastructural facilities will be offered to the incubatee 
companies on an individual basis, apart from a set of shared/ common infrastructure mentioned 
hereinafter: 
Physical Infrastructure 
 Fully furnished offices – Office space & basic furniture: Company specific  
 Personal computers, Printers 
 Telecom facilities 
 Broad Band Internet connectivity 
 Laboratory Facilities of Incubation Labs - Access to depart mental laboratories and other 
resources for products development purposes 
Business Support 
 Business plan assistance 
 Mentoring support - Pool of mentors, experts in technology, legal, financial and related 
matters, with or without consideration 
 Access to professionals with legal, financial, accounting, IP and industry expertise  
 Showcasing events for exhibition of products and solutions 
 Networking events to facilitate interaction with investors and industries Training programmes 
and seminars relevant to entr epreneurs NEST (such as alumni, Venture Capitalists, industry 
professionals) 
 Consulting services - In addition, APSIT Uddan will also build up information and knowledge 
pool to be useful generically for start-up companies. APSIT Uddan will coordinate with APSIT 
Skills Centre at APSIT on management education and training programmes designed for start-
up companies. 
 
Shared Resources 
 Meeting and conference rooms equipped with projectors & audio/video conferencing 
facilities 
 High-end photocopying, fax, scanning machines Pantry facilities 
 Lab facilities 
 Library Facilities 
 
 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 45 
 
 
Entrepreneur Infrastructure 
 Common Computation facilities for the entrepreneurs have been set up. Physical 
infrastructure like office, workshop space on an affordable basis is made available to t he 
entrepreneurs. 
 
Multimedia facility 
 Dedicated multimedia facilities for remote board meetings and video conferences are fully 
running. Regular meetings are held with the IIC partners through video conferencing. This is 
to keep pace with the developing technologies in other countries. 
 
Library facility 
 The incubates at IIC can have access to APSIT, Thane central library at very nominal charges. 
 
Access to Skilled Resources 
 IIC is strongly supported by the APSIT Thane, a reputed institute in the field of scie nce and 
technology. APSIT, Thane provides the incubates at IIC with enormous intellectual resources, 
laboratory and library facilities of all the departments in the institute. Our alumni network 
also works for IIC to foster incubation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 46 
 
 
ACTIVITIES PLANNED   
 
A. ONLINE LECTURES  
1. Technology series  
2. Innovation and Entrepreneurship development series  
3. Intellectual Property rights series  
4. Management series  
 
B. TRAINING PROGRAMS   
1. Pre-incubation and incubation Management - Pre-incubation is the term used to de scribe 
support services to would-be entrepreneurs before they launch their business. These services 
can include proactive identification of would -be entrepreneurs, helping them to develop a 
proper business plan, training and advice on forming a company. Ad vice and Assistance will 
also be provided to entrepreneurs with company registration procedures. 
2. Entrepreneurship development Program 
3. IPR and Technology Transfer  
4. Design Thinking & Innovations  
 
 
C. Offering Credit Courses and EDPs 
 
Students will be offered  credit courses such as Business Model Development, Project Evaluation, 
Project Financing, Project Management, Social Entrepreneurship, Entrepreneurship and Family 
Business etc. In the long run, such courses will be offered as Executive Development program s to 
benefit the entrepreneur eco-system around, Thane. 
APSIT IIC could shortlist a few courses from edX, Coursera, LinkedIn Learning, Lynda and other online 
platforms as “Elective Courses” in Entrepreneurship and Finance that students can enroll for, provide 
guidance to students for selection of other courses as electives, and also provide suitable credit to 
students availing these cou rses during their undergraduate courses. Such courses are useful to 
understand basic theory and practice of entrepreneurshi p and finance. While many courses are 
available free, a few are paid. Entrepreneurship courses are appropriate for anyone interested in 
starting and growing a successful business. 
 
D. PLANNING COMPETITIONS AND WORKSHOPS  
a. The Idea/POC Competition  
APSIT IIC organises the Idea/POC competition every semester to promote innovation among 
students. The industry could be any industry and the problem could be technical, design 
related or service related. Individual students or teams can identify unmet customer ne eds, 
develop/design new products or services that meet those needs up to the proof -of-concept 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 47 
 
stage, and develop business models to support the creation and launch of those products or 
services. These could be funded through the various grant schemes of th e government 
administered by DST, TIFAC, DBT or by the industry itself. Finally, the same could then be 
presented as a five-minute pitch program conducted annually in front of experienced judges 
and mentors. The best three ideas can receive awards/certificates. The shortlisted ideas/PoCs 
will get an opportunity to receive intensive mentoring sessions, may get funding as well as 
send his/her Idea/Poc to National Innovation competitions.  
b. Annual Business Plan Competition  
 It encourages students to team up  complementing/competing the expertise required for 
leadership of a successful enterprise. Winners will be given expert mentoring as well as the 
support to incubate the enterprise in Udaan Incubation Centre apart from the prizes. 
c. Ideation Workshops  
The need for entrepreneurs is continuously growing as competition gets tougher and the 
world becomes increasingly globalized. Whether one is starting one’s own company or 
innovating within an existing company, having an entrepreneurial mind -set is the key to 
success. The ideation workshop is two days long and the goal of the Ideation Workshop is to 
train students’ creative mind-set and inspire them to become great entrepreneurs. 
Students can: 
 Learn to identify business opportunities where other people can only see problems 
 Understand social challenges and know how to analyse the context 
 Screen new technologies and quickly understand how they can be applied to solve a 
problem 
 Use creative tools and techniques to generate great ideas 
 Build innovative business models 
 Make rapid prototypes and use visual communication to create a great presentation 
of their ideas 
 To participate in the upcoming Ideation Workshop, please contact our team over 
email. 
d. Awareness Camps  
Innovation & Entrepreneurship Development Cell of  APSIT conducts Entrepreneurship 
Awareness Camps at APSIT for its students. The main objective of this Entrepreneurship 
Awareness Camp (EAC) is to create awareness among students of Engineering and Science 
courses about various facets of entrepreneurship as an alternative career option. The idea of 
organizing this workshop is to inculcate the fundamentals, key concepts of Entrepreneurship 
in the Science and Technology among students.  
* The programme may get funding by National Science and Technology Entrep reneurship 
Development Board (NSTEDB), under DST -NIMAT project of Department of Science and 
Technology, Government of India supported by Entrepreneurship Development Institute of 
India (EDII). 
 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 48 
 
The main attractions of the camp are as follows: 
 Successful Entrepreneurs will be invited for expert lecture. 
 Practicing entrepreneur’s success stories – common problems faced by entrepreneurs 
will be discussed. 
 Grant, funding and loaning from banks, agencies will be discussed. 
 Improving communication skills (interact ing with people) for better results will be 
discussed. 
e. Accelerator Program  
Our 12 months Accelerator Program is focused towards promising early -stage start -ups. 
Selected start-ups receive mentorship, strategic direction and access to local/global mentors 
and partners. 
f. APSIT Innovation Club  
Innovation Club at APSIT is a team of exceedingly driven members of the student community 
who wish to promote the entrepreneurial ecosystem on the campus. Innovation club aims at 
providing a platform for student i nnovators to showcase their potential. To promote the 
entrepreneurial ecosystem at APSIT and be a part of success stories of student entrepreneurs 
is the vision of Innovation Club. Innovation club organizes several events for the student 
community of APSIT as well as volunteers the events organized by APSIT IIC. 
Culture: The student projects ideas through the brainstorming sessions. 
Conduct: Workshops, meet -ups and hands -on-training programs in the field of 
entrepreneurship and scientific technology. 
Connect: Become a part of research conclaves and start-up competitions in the field. 
Objectives: 
To cultivate a self-sustainable centre for Entrepreneurship 
To identify potential student’s project ideas and catalyse transformation into pre -start-ups 
with the cumulative efforts of the members of the innovation club 
To promote innovative entrepreneurship among student community of IISER Bhopal 
E. PBL  
Nowadays Industry expects engineers to have skills like critical thinking, problem solving, ability to 
work in team, make presentation of the ideas and technology developed etc. Project Based Learning 
is a novel teaching PBL method, designed to address these requirements to make your ward ready for 
Industry. It helps students to learn better and it motivates students to gain knowledge, and remember 
it longer. Moreover it gives students the chance to apply the skills they learn in Engineering to 
technology to real-world situations. The skills acquired will help your ward to succeed in professional 
life. 
 
 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 49 
 
F. EXALT  
A P Shah Institute of Technology conducts a technical fest called Exalt every year. The event is meant 
to provide a stage for budding engineers to showcase their skills and innovation. The motive of this 
event is to develop various skills of students in co-curricular activities & to expose them to the current 
trends in the technical & professional fields. 
Each department organizes events related to their field. We have following departments – Computer, 
I.T., EXTC, and Civil & Mechanical. With events like technical paper presentation, poster presentation 
and various technical games, participants are put through the grind to prove their technical acumen. 
The winners were encouraged with cash prizes, trophies & certificates. The Organizing Committee 
includes MESA, CMSA, ITSA, CESA, and IETE & Student Council. 
Exalt includes various events like: 
 Technical Quiz 
 Project Presentation 
 Poster Presentation 
 Mathletes 
 Robo Race 
 Floating Deck 
 Network Debugging  
 Problem Statement 
 Sprint Design 
 And many more … 
Under Mechanical De partment events like Pictionary, MSE Wall, Robo Race, Airplane Crafting etc. 
Events like Network Debugging, Code Satta, Jerry Busted, Code X etc. were organized by Computer & 
IT Department. A few star events organized under Civil Department includes Floati ng Deck, Bridge It 
etc. lastly EXTC Department had come up with events like Circuit Building, Space Soccer, AR Gaming, 
Touch Me Not and many more. The events were successful enough to attract almost all the students 
of the institute. 
 
G. APSIT SKILLS INTERNSHIP 
APSIT skills internship program would assist students to have hands on trainings and practical 
experience, enhancing their personality, networking and taking them closer to reality. 
It’s a four week 160 hours program with a project in the last week af ter 2nd, 4th, 6th and 8th semester, 
as per AAPSIT guidelines. For the holistic development of students we have incorporated five domains 
Technology, Management, Business, Personality development and social responsibility.  
We have developed a structure based on Student mentors and mentees under the guidance of Faculty 
Mentors. Our group of final year students are looking after the 2nd, 3rd and 4th year interns as mentors. 
These student mentors are maintaining the records and updating faculty mentors about the progress 
of the 15 -20 interns assigned to them. This year we are taking the advantage of online training 
platforms. 
              
 
  APSIT INNOVATION AND START-UP GUIDE – for Faculty and Students by APSIT IIC
 
 50 
 
 
H. TALENT FEST (Technical & Cultural)   
1. APSIT TALENT FEST  is an open festival for all hosted by the students of APSIT. It’s an 
amalgamation of cultural, arts, literature, technical and gaming events comprising of 
intellectual as well as fun and creat ive events with a variety of scope for all. It's not just any 
event organised, but an open platform welcoming all with an opportunity to showcase their 
talent to the entire city. So join us and express your hidden gems of talent and also compete 
with the best. 
a. Project Presentation 
"Every project is incomplete if it's not understood by the people". Presenting something is not 
just about having information, it needs urge to deliver up to audience. For all those who stand 
out by their extraordinary talent to mark their point, here's the opportunity.  Let your voice 
sounds be real n clear. 
b. Poster Presentation 
Good art inspires, Good Designs motivate. So now is your chance to woo us all with your 
creativity and your artistry... APSIT brings to you, the Poster Presentation Competition where 
you'll have to think outside the box, and put your best designs forward... So Join in and let 
your Designs be fresh and Native. 
c. Dream Tech 
"No matter what people tell you, words and ideas can change the world" - Dead Poets Society 
(1989) All that a start -up truly needs is an idea - one that is truly innovative, one which can 
take the world by storm. So get the gears in your head turning and give us the best idea for 
your dream start -up in DreamTech. No matter how outlandish or challenging the idea may 
seem, present it to us in the best possible way and give wings to your start-up dreams! 
 
I. ICASTe - The Prism of Conference    
A.P. Shah Institute of Technology, Thane (Mumbai, Maharashtra) with pride presents International 
Conference on” Advances in Science, Technology and Engineering” (ICASTe -20--), The Prism of 
Conferences in the college campus in January. The broader  objective of ICASTe -20-- is to provide a 
forum for students, faculty, industry and researchers to share their ideas, stimulate creativity, 
facilitate inter-disciplinary development, motivate and inspire emerging talents. The purpose of the 
conference is t o bring together researchers from around the world who are interested in exploring 
new trends in the field of technology. 
 
 
