Mechanical Engineering | APSIT
Skip to main content
Toggle navigation
Parshvanath Charitable Trust's A. P. Shah Institute of Technology
(Religious Jain Minority Institute, Affiliated to University of Mumbai, Approved by AICTE Delhi & DTE)
Survey no 12, 13, Opp. Hypercity Mall, Kasarvadavali, Ghodbunder Road, Thane (W) 400 615, Maharashtra. Mob: 7738305400
Main navigation
Home
About
About
Approvals
Institutional Development Plan
APSIT-NIRF DATA
NBA Accreditation
Mandatory Disclosure
Balance Sheet
Admin
Governing Body
Principal
Controller of Examination
Board of Management
Academic Council
Board of Studies
Finance Committee
Internal Complaint Committee
Student Grievance Redressal Committee(SGRC)
Academic Leadership
Academics
Details of Academic Programs
Academic Calendar
Statutes/Ordinances pertaining to Academics/Examinations
Departments
AI and ML
Data Science
Computer  Engineering
Civil Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Information Technology
Vision and Mission
Faculty profile
Activities
Laboratories
Student Committee
Humanities and Applied Sciences
Library
Library Policy
Library Services
Rules for Students
Academic Collaborations
Mechanical  Engineering
Computer Engineering/IT/ EXTC
Civil Engineering
Syllabus
Computer Engineering
Information Technology
CSE AI & ML
CSE Data Science
Honors & Minor Degree
Admissions
Prospectus
Admission process and guidelines
Fee Refund Policy
Institute Brochure 2025-26
Admission Criteria
Fee Structure 2025-26
Admission FAQ's
Research
Entrepreneurship Development Cell
Research & Development
IPR
Start-Up policy
Central Facilities
Student Life
Sports Facilities
National Service Scheme (NSS)
Placements
About us
Placement Record
Training and Placement Officer
Student Grievance Redressal Committee(SGRC)
Health Facilities
Internal Complaint Committee
Anti-Ragging Cell
Facilities for differently-abled
Academic Initiatives
Attendance Reward Scheme
E-Learning Platform
NPTEL Local Chapter
IIT Bombay Super Resource Center
Xpression Club
Free GATE/GRE*/CAT* Coaching
Aptitude Training
Project Based Learning (PBL)
The MAC Club
Foreign Language Courses
ICASTe 2k19 Conference
Mentoring
Institution's Innovation Council - IIC
Counselling
Counselor
FAQ's
Industry Institute Interaction Cell
Exalt : Technical Fest
Student Council
Women Development Cell
Equal Opportunity Cell - APSIT
Socio-Economically Disadvantaged Groups Cell (SEDG)
Alumni
Alumni Association with details
Information
Announcements
Circulars & Notices
Newsletters
Job Openings
Gallery
Photos
Contacts
Mechanical Department
State Level Technothon Baramati
T.E & BE Mechanical Students from APSIT bags the Special first prize In State level Technothon Baramati
NBA Accreditation
The Department is accredited by the competent authority in NBA. It encourages quality improvement initiatives by Institutions which in turn improves student quality.
SolidWorks Training Centre
SOLIDWORKS is a design automation application that lets designers sketch ideas with features and dimensions to
produce 3D models and detailed drawings
CNC & VMC Training Academy
Mechanical Department provides Practical based skill oriented training on advance Industry Standard CNC and VMC machine
MAC: Modified Auto Club
Students Design and Fabricate Solar and E-Vehicles.
About the Mechanical Engineering Department
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
is the discipline that applies the principles of Mechanics and Materials Science for the analysis, design, manufacturing and maintenance of machines. It is one of the oldest and broadest of the engineering disciplines aptly known as mother of all branches. It is used to design and analyze manufacturing plants, industrial equipment and machinery, heating and cooling systems, transport systems, aircrafts, watercraft, robotics, weapons etc. Mechanical Department has been established in year 2014 with a number of qualified and experienced faculty members. Acknowledged for its rich infrastructure and advanced laboratories, the department is a feather in the crown of APSIT.
Our department also offers Project based learning curriculum. The primary focus of our curriculum is to impart technical know-how to students, promote their problem solving skills and innovation of new technologies. Department offers a number of optional courses for providing spectrum of options to the students to pursue their interest. Students are encouraged to undertake various projects. Our department has a distinguished record in both teaching and research. Faculty members have excellent academic credentials and are highly regarded. This website provides an overview of the academic programs, activities of our department, research facilities, profiles of faculty members, and details of student activities. The department grooms technical and academic skills of the students to extract the best out of them.
Vision:
"To be a nationally renowned Mechanical Engineering Department producing professionals, catering dynamic global industrial needs with sense of responsibility and social sensitivity for contributing towards national growth.”
Mission:
M1 - To provide an academic foundation in Mechanical Engineering while imbibing professional studies with advance skills to fulfil ever changing global industrial needs.
M2 -  To impart graduates with social values and ethics by providing opportunities to solve environmental and social problems.
M3 -  To establish an environment that encourages and builds an ambience of learning and practical application of underlying principles at various level.
Faculty Achievements :
Prof. N. V. Khatekar published and presented a research article entitled, "Modelling of Surface Roughness using ANN and Correlation with Acoustic Emission Signals in turning of AISI 303 steel" during 5th ICDMAI (International Conference) from 15 - 17 Jan, 2021.
Prof. N. V. Khatekar published and presented a research article entitled, "Correlation of Acoustic Emission Parameters with Surface Roughness in End Milling of AISI 4140 Steel " during 3rd ICRITDME (International Conference) from 27 - 28 Aug, 2020.
Prof. S. M. Patankar successfully completed
Lean Six Sigma Green Belt
Training and Examination conducted by MSME-TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT CENTRE, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ORGANIZATION and is a
Certified Lean Six Sigma Green Belt and Black Belt Professional.
Minor research grant from University of Mumbai was awarded to Prof. S.M. Kondawar for the project titled “
Analysis of  Polyester Resin and Glass Fiber Composite
”.
Student Achievements :
Congratulations to BE Students Girish Dighe, Soham Yerandkar and Sainath Barbhai for receiving an Internship on July 05, 2021 with a Startup named
Manastu Space
as a Propulsion Simulation Engineer Intern in collaboration with IIT Bombay and DRDO.
Congratulations to BE Students Yash Paranjape,Yednesh Chavan, Rahul Pokharkar and Prasad Banait of APSIT for receiving funds of Rupees 20,000/- for their project “Zero Cost Cold Storage based on Evaporative Cooling” which has been selected by Dassault Systemes Foundation, India, for a Physical Prototype with Scaled Down model using 3D Printing. Date : 23/01/2020.This Physical prototype will be displayed in “
La Fondation”
Conferences.
Congratulations Mr Suyash Patil of Mechanical Department, APSIT for Securing 3
rd
Position in ROBOWAR Event Held in Technicia-2020 on 23
rd
& 24
th
January 2020 at Amity University, Mumbai.
Congratulations to BE Students Yash Paranjape,Yednesh Chavan, Rahul Pokharkar and Prasad Banait of APSIT for Receiving a GRANT of Rupees 45,680/- for their project “Analysis, Simulation and Construction of Evaporative Cooling System for Cold Storage in Rural Areas.” has been selected by ISHRAE, India under ISPG (ISHRAE Student project Grant) –Under Graduate. Date: 16/10/2019
Highlights of Department
Licensed copies of ANSYS, 3D Experience, Solidworks, Creo Parametric.
BMW Skill Next Program.
Exploring Technologies with
Modified Auto club (Solar Car Building)
, Drone Club, Robo club.
Professional Student Chapters of ISHRAE and SAE.
Departmental Level Students Association-MESA.
Expert talks, Value Addition Programs and Project based learning.
Printed Numerical Booklet given to all students covering the entire syllabus.
Industrial grade CNC and VMC Machines
Infrastructure available with Department
E-Learning Platform: Moodle
PC to student ratio – 1:1
Laboratories: Thermal Engineering, Strength of materials, Production engineering, Fluid mechanics, basic workshop and machine shop, software labs, etc.) with well equipped machines.
Air Conditioned Classrooms and Tutorial Rooms equipped with LCD Projectors and Smartboards
.
Wi-fi and printing facility for student.
Innovative Techniques used for teaching-learning
To develop the aspirations of students, Student-centric teaching learning methodologies have been effectively adopted by the department as listed following.
You tube or self-made videos and animations related to some concepts in subject
Mind Mapping/ Flowchart
Showing real industry problem to understand the concepts
Preparation of model
Software application related to the subject
Topic-wise MCQ
Interactive expert talk
Rapid Surprise Test
Taking polls in online lecture
Case Studies / Problem based learning
Cooperative group learning
IIT Virtual Labs
Simulation
Quiz's, play cards
ICT(Interactive Classroom Teaching)
CAL (Computer Aided Learning)
E-learning platform(Moodle)
Project Based Learning
E-Books
Library
Site visits / Industrial visits/Workshops
NPTEL/MOOCS courses
Mini Project Exhibitions
Search
Departments:
Computer Engineering
Civil Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
CSE AI and ML
CSE Data Science
Information Technology
Useful Links:
About Department
Vision & Mission
PO, PEO & PSO
Faculty Profile
Collaborations
Placement Details
Result Analysis
Curriculum & Syllabus
Laboratories
Workshops & Events
Professional Bodies
Student Organization
Department Achievements
Timetable
Academic Calendar
Department Magazine
Industrial Visits
Placement News!!!
Aurionpro Placement Drive
Capgemini Placement Drive
Exceller Tech Placement Drive
DSW Placement Drive
Paramatrix Placement Drive
SnapWorld Placement Drive
Exceller Placement Drive
Virtusa Placement Drive
Contact Info
Address: Survey No. 12, 13
Opp. Hypercity Mall, Kasarvadavali,
Ghodbunder Road, Thane West,
Thane, Maharashtra 400615
Phone: 022-25973737
[email protected]
Mobile: 7738305400 / 7738940600
Exam (for exam/transcripts related queries contact:
[email protected]
,
[email protected]
)
Powered by
Drupal
.
By continuing past this page, you agree to our Terms of Service, Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy and Content Policies. All trademarks are properties of their respective owners.
© APSIT. All rights reserved.