Mech Industry Collabs | APSIT
Skip to main content
Toggle navigation
Parshvanath Charitable Trust's A. P. Shah Institute of Technology
(Religious Jain Minority Institute, Affiliated to University of Mumbai, Approved by AICTE Delhi & DTE)
Survey no 12, 13, Opp. Hypercity Mall, Kasarvadavali, Ghodbunder Road, Thane (W) 400 615, Maharashtra. Mob: 7738305400
Main navigation
Home
About
About
Approvals
Institutional Development Plan
APSIT-NIRF DATA
NBA Accreditation
Mandatory Disclosure
Balance Sheet
Admin
Governing Body
Principal
Controller of Examination
Board of Management
Academic Council
Board of Studies
Finance Committee
Internal Complaint Committee
Student Grievance Redressal Committee(SGRC)
Academic Leadership
Academics
Details of Academic Programs
Academic Calendar
Statutes/Ordinances pertaining to Academics/Examinations
Departments
AI and ML
Data Science
Computer  Engineering
Civil Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Information Technology
Vision and Mission
Faculty profile
Activities
Laboratories
Student Committee
Humanities and Applied Sciences
Library
Library Policy
Library Services
Rules for Students
Academic Collaborations
Mechanical  Engineering
Computer Engineering/IT/ EXTC
Civil Engineering
Syllabus
Computer Engineering
Information Technology
CSE AI & ML
CSE Data Science
Honors & Minor Degree
Admissions
Prospectus
Admission process and guidelines
Fee Refund Policy
Institute Brochure 2025-26
Admission Criteria
Fee Structure 2025-26
Admission FAQ's
Research
Entrepreneurship Development Cell
Research & Development
IPR
Start-Up policy
Central Facilities
Student Life
Sports Facilities
National Service Scheme (NSS)
Placements
About us
Placement Record
Training and Placement Officer
Student Grievance Redressal Committee(SGRC)
Health Facilities
Internal Complaint Committee
Anti-Ragging Cell
Facilities for differently-abled
Academic Initiatives
Attendance Reward Scheme
E-Learning Platform
NPTEL Local Chapter
IIT Bombay Super Resource Center
Xpression Club
Free GATE/GRE*/CAT* Coaching
Aptitude Training
Project Based Learning (PBL)
The MAC Club
Foreign Language Courses
ICASTe 2k19 Conference
Mentoring
Institution's Innovation Council - IIC
Counselling
Counselor
FAQ's
Industry Institute Interaction Cell
Exalt : Technical Fest
Student Council
Women Development Cell
Equal Opportunity Cell - APSIT
Socio-Economically Disadvantaged Groups Cell (SEDG)
Alumni
Alumni Association with details
Information
Announcements
Circulars & Notices
Newsletters
Job Openings
Gallery
Photos
Contacts
Convocation Ceremony @APSIT
Our Recruiters
Capgemini Placed Students of 2025 Batch
LTI Mind Tree Placed Students
APSIT: Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE), Maharashtra-Goa has awarded. APSIT "The Best Engineering College" and "Best Principal"
AurionPro Placed Students
Mechanical Engineering Department Industry Collaborations
The "Dassault Systems" SOLID WORKS
Intuitive 3D design and product development solutions from SOLIDWORKS help you conceptualize, create, validate, communicate, manage, and transform your innovate ideas into great product designs.
Dassault - 3D Experience Package
It consists of modelling, simulation and analysis softwares like CATIA, ENOVIA and DELMIA.
BMW Skill Next
Students
will have
handson
experience on BMW
Twin Power Turbo, Inline 4 cylinder diesel engine, eight-speed Steptronic, automatic transmission units will be installed.
ANSYS
Students
ANSYS provides outstanding value, laying the foundation for educational and other opportunities that arise from using best-in-class engineering simulation tools. The high-performance bundles of
ANSYS simulation technology include structural, thermal, fluid dynamics, explicit dynamics, electronics and multiphysics solvers, ANSYS Workbench, CAD import tools, solid modeling, advanced meshing, and
post-processing features.
Autodesk
AutoCAD® is computer-aided design (CAD) software that empowers architects, engineers, and construction professionals to create precise drawings.
3D CAD, or three-dimensional computer-aided design, is technology for design and technical documentation, which replaces manual drafting with an automated process. Used by architects, engineers, and other professionals, 3D CAD software precisely represents and visualizes objects using a collection of points in three dimensions on the computer. Autodesk has a broad portfolio of 3D CAD software programs to help people explore and share ideas, visualize concepts, and simulate how designs will perform before they are made.
MSC
MSC Apex Modeler is a CAE specific direct modelling and meshing solution that streamlines CAD clean-up, simplification and meshing workflow.
In introducing the current trend in Automotive Industry and making the student ready for Future Technologies through Methodical and Practical way.
Focus on training in High-End Technologies for which there exists a Gap.
ptc - CREO
Creo Parametric provides the broadest range of powerful yet flexible CAD 3D modeling software capabilities to accelerate the design of parts and assemblies
CNC & VMC Training Academy
CNC machining
is a manufacturing process in which pre-programmed computer software dictates the movement of factory tools and
machinery
. The process can be used to control a range of complex
machinery
, from grinders and lathes to mills and routers.
Texas Instruments Innovation Center
Texas Instruments Innovation  Center (TIIC@APSIT) offers opportunity to learn design of Internet of Things (IoT) systems using Texas Instruments, USA modules. TIIC caters to career building to suit Industry 4.0 needs.
e-Yantra Robotics Lab
To address futuristic needs of industrial automation, eYantra Robotics Lab (eYRL@APSIT) is setup in collaboration with IIT Bombay. eYRL facilitates Design and Development of Industrial Robotic Automation.
ICT Academy
The aim of India’s higher education system is attaining sustainable development and achieving higher growth rates which could be enabled through creation, transmission and dissemination of knowledge. Higher education at all levels in the country is witnessing a consistent growth pattern marked by the setting up of new institutions and the improvement of the existing ones.
MATLAB
College provides students and faculty with full access to MATLAB and Simulink through campus wide license.
Search
Departments:
Computer Engineering
Civil Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
CSE AI and ML
CSE Data Science
Information Technology
Useful Links:
About Department
Vision & Mission
PO, PEO & PSO
Faculty Profile
Collaborations
Placement Details
Result Analysis
Curriculum & Syllabus
Laboratories
Workshops & Events
Professional Bodies
Student Organization
Department Achievements
Timetable
Academic Calendar
Department Magazine
Industrial Visits
Placement News!!!
Aurionpro Placement Drive
Capgemini Placement Drive
Exceller Tech Placement Drive
DSW Placement Drive
Paramatrix Placement Drive
SnapWorld Placement Drive
Exceller Placement Drive
Virtusa Placement Drive
Contact Info
Address: Survey No. 12, 13
Opp. Hypercity Mall, Kasarvadavali,
Ghodbunder Road, Thane West,
Thane, Maharashtra 400615
Phone: 022-25973737
[email protected]
Mobile: 7738305400 / 7738940600
Exam (for exam/transcripts related queries contact:
[email protected]
,
[email protected]
)
Powered by
Drupal
.
By continuing past this page, you agree to our Terms of Service, Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy and Content Policies. All trademarks are properties of their respective owners.
© APSIT. All rights reserved.