ORACLE ACADEMY | APSIT
Skip to main content
Toggle navigation
Parshvanath Charitable Trust's A. P. Shah Institute of Technology
(Religious Jain Minority Institute, Affiliated to University of Mumbai, Approved by AICTE Delhi & DTE)
Survey no 12, 13, Opp. Hypercity Mall, Kasarvadavali, Ghodbunder Road, Thane (W) 400 615, Maharashtra. Mob: 7738305400
Main navigation
Home
About
About
Approvals
Institutional Development Plan
APSIT-NIRF DATA
NBA Accreditation
Mandatory Disclosure
Balance Sheet
Admin
Governing Body
Principal
Controller of Examination
Board of Management
Academic Council
Board of Studies
Finance Committee
Internal Complaint Committee
Student Grievance Redressal Committee(SGRC)
Academic Leadership
Academics
Details of Academic Programs
Academic Calendar
Statutes/Ordinances pertaining to Academics/Examinations
Departments
AI and ML
Data Science
Computer  Engineering
Civil Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Information Technology
Vision and Mission
Faculty profile
Activities
Laboratories
Student Committee
Humanities and Applied Sciences
Library
Library Policy
Library Services
Rules for Students
Academic Collaborations
Mechanical  Engineering
Computer Engineering/IT/ EXTC
Civil Engineering
Syllabus
Computer Engineering
Information Technology
CSE AI & ML
CSE Data Science
Honors & Minor Degree
Admissions
Prospectus
Admission process and guidelines
Fee Refund Policy
Institute Brochure 2025-26
Admission Criteria
Fee Structure 2025-26
Admission FAQ's
Research
Entrepreneurship Development Cell
Research & Development
IPR
Start-Up policy
Central Facilities
Student Life
Sports Facilities
National Service Scheme (NSS)
Placements
About us
Placement Record
Training and Placement Officer
Student Grievance Redressal Committee(SGRC)
Health Facilities
Internal Complaint Committee
Anti-Ragging Cell
Facilities for differently-abled
Academic Initiatives
Attendance Reward Scheme
E-Learning Platform
NPTEL Local Chapter
IIT Bombay Super Resource Center
Xpression Club
Free GATE/GRE*/CAT* Coaching
Aptitude Training
Project Based Learning (PBL)
The MAC Club
Foreign Language Courses
ICASTe 2k19 Conference
Mentoring
Institution's Innovation Council - IIC
Counselling
Counselor
FAQ's
Industry Institute Interaction Cell
Exalt : Technical Fest
Student Council
Women Development Cell
Equal Opportunity Cell - APSIT
Socio-Economically Disadvantaged Groups Cell (SEDG)
Alumni
Alumni Association with details
Information
Announcements
Circulars & Notices
Newsletters
Job Openings
Gallery
Photos
Contacts
Convocation Ceremony @APSIT
Our Recruiters
Capgemini Placed Students of 2025 Batch
LTI Mind Tree Placed Students
APSIT: Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE), Maharashtra-Goa has awarded. APSIT "The Best Engineering College" and "Best Principal"
AurionPro Placed Students
OBJECTIVES OF ORACLE ACADEMY
To advance computing education of the students as well as the faculties and increase knowledge, innovation, skills development, and diversity.
To make the students proficient business analysts, technical experts in structured query language (SQL), and develop essential professional skills including teamwork, project management.
To make students understand how to write basic Java applications and simple applets that include: code reusability, data encapsulation, dynamically downloadable program units, and architecturally neutral and platform-independent programs.
To train students to examine business case studies and apply their technical knowledge and professional skills to develop online database applications.
Why Oracle Academy
Oracle Academy benefits offer educators and students computer science education resources to advance knowledge, skills development, innovation and diversity in technology fields like Java, database design, and SQL and PL/SQL programming. Oracle Academy membership costs nothing and offers individual learners, educators, and educational institutions access to world-class technology, expertly developed learning materials and curriculum, training and other resources. To be college and career ready, today’s students need computer science classes as part of their educational pathways. Educational Institutes know that delivering high quality education requires rigorous curriculum, engaging resources and skilled, trained, professional teachers. Oracle Academy offers a wide range of classroom courses, self-study instruction, workshops and resources.
Benefits of Oracle Academy:
Institutes:
Free Oracle software licenses and MyOracle Support for teaching and not-for-profit, academic course-and degree-related research.
A wide variety of engaging online learning resources that can be used by individuals or in a traditional or flipped classroom environment, including Oracle popular Ask the Oracle Experts webcast series and Big Data Science Bootcamps
Added value with Self-Study courses suitable for use by educators and students like Alice, Greenfoot.
Modern, hosted, academic full course curriculum in Java, database design, SQL and PL/SQL that is SCORM-compliant and aligned to national, regional, and international standards and Oracle industry certifications.
An included assessment engine to make student evaluation and grading easy.
Educator professional development courses delivered in a variety of formats to help teachers learn to teach computer science.
Instructors:
Licenses for Oracle’s industry leading software for use in teaching and not-for-profit course- or degree-related research.
Rigorous, SCORM-compliant, standards-aligned academic curriculum in Java, database design, and SQL and PL/SQL programming.
Professional development opportunities to help you teach Oracle Academy curriculum.
Discounts on Oracle University courses, Oracle industry certification exams and preparation materials and Oracle Press Books.
Students:
Oracle Academy self-study courses in Alice and Greenfoot, educational Java development environments.
Software licenses for your personal learning use, via the Oracle Technology Network.
Virtual Student Day events to learn about key computing topics and explore tech career resources.
Data Science Bootcamps, video-based lecture series to introduce and provide hands on practice with data science and Big Data in the context of real-world problems.
Oracle Academy Ask the Oracle Experts, an interactive webcast series on a variety of technology-related topics.
Discounts on Oracle University courses, Oracle certification exams and prep materials, and Oracle Press Books.
Curriculum Goals and Objectives:
Oracle Academy curriculum is available in iLearning.
Prepares students for ORACLE Certification.
After completing the Certification, students may join as Database Engineers⁄Database Administrators, JAVA Programmer, etc.
Provides theoretical as well as the hands-on introduction to Java Programming, Database Design, Artificial Intelligence with Machine Learning in Java, Programming with PL/SQL, Database Foundation.
Oracle University provides all certified candidates access to an eCertificate
Courses & Exam Offerings Under Oracle Academy:
Oracle Academy’s courses align to Oracle professional certifications offered through Oracle University, which means students & educators can demonstrate their database and Java knowledge and skills with a distinction that is recognized by IT professionals and industries. As a Oracle Academy Institutional Member APSIT students & educators are eligible for discounts discounts of 25 percent on Oracle certification exam vouchers.
Courses & Certification Exams Under Oracle Academy:
For more Details Visit
https://academy.oracle.com/en/resources-oracle-certifications.html
Search
Departments:
Computer Engineering
Civil Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
CSE AI and ML
CSE Data Science
Information Technology
Placement News!!!
Aurionpro Placement Drive
Capgemini Placement Drive
Exceller Tech Placement Drive
DSW Placement Drive
Paramatrix Placement Drive
SnapWorld Placement Drive
Exceller Placement Drive
Virtusa Placement Drive
Contact Info
Address: Survey No. 12, 13
Opp. Hypercity Mall, Kasarvadavali,
Ghodbunder Road, Thane West,
Thane, Maharashtra 400615
Phone: 022-25973737
[email protected]
Mobile: 7738305400 / 7738940600
Exam (for exam/transcripts related queries contact:
[email protected]
,
[email protected]
)
Powered by
Drupal
.
By continuing past this page, you agree to our Terms of Service, Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy and Content Policies. All trademarks are properties of their respective owners.
© APSIT. All rights reserved.