 
 
 
 
APSIT  SWAYAM - NPTEL LOCAL CHAPTER 
 
 The National Programme on Technology Enhanced Learning (NPTEL) was initiated by 
seven Indian Institutes of Technology (Bombay, Delhi, Kanpur, Kharagpur, Madras, 
Guwahati and Roorkee) along with the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore in 2003. Five 
core disciplines were identified, namely, civil engineering, computer science and 
engineering, electrical engineering, electronics and communication engineering and 
mechanical engineering and 235 courses in web/video format were developed in this. 
 Massive Open Online Courses (MOOC) is essentially an asynchronous platform and a 
process for teaching through pre-recorded lectures, resource video materials, lecture 
notes, assignments and quizzes, which are usually online and provide self-assessment in 
regular intervals during learning. 
 APSIT Partnering since July-2016 with NPTEL as a Local Chapter. 
NPTEL Online Certification 
 
 The objective of enabling students obtain certificates for courses is to make students 
employable in the industry or pursue a suitable higher education programme. Through an 
online portal, 4-, 8-, or 12-week online courses, typically on topics relevant to students in 
all years of higher education along with basic core courses in sciences and humanities 
with exposure to relevant tools and technologies, are being offered.  
 The enrolment to and learning from these courses involves no cost. Following these online 
courses, an in-person, proctored certification exam will be conducted and a certificate is 
provided through the participating institutions and industry, when applicable. 
 
 

Benifits of the NPTEL Certification 
 UGC and AICTE are actively encouraging colleges and Universities to adopt atleast one 
online course a semester for credit transfer. Many have already incorporated the same. 
Also several IITs such as IIT Madras, IIT Roorkee, IIT Tirupati, IIT Palakkad, etc are 
allowing these courses to be taken for credits. So too, IIIT Delhi, IIIT Hyderabad, etc.  
 Many students are using these to prepare for GATE exams and higher studies too. 
 20% of the audience is faculty members in various colleges across the country. The 
advanced courses are being recommended to AICTE to be approved as Faculty 
development programs (FDP) so that they can get the points for the same. 
 
NPTEL-APSIT Active Local Chapter 
 APSIT Recognized as a ACTIVE Local Chapter for Jul-Oct 2018 session. 
 For this Session 21 faculties and 54 Students were Certified in various branches such as 
Computer, IT,EXTC, Civil and Mechanical Engineering.  
 Out of this Prof.Nilofer Shaikh and Prof. Mayuri Jain secured Gold Medal and Mrs.Nilofer 
shaikh is a Topper in 2 subje 
 APSIT Reimburse the full NPTEL Certification Exam fees to faculties & Students who have 
completed NPTEL Certification Successfully . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
NPTEL Certification Statistics @ APSIT Since Local Chapter is Established 
July-Oct 2018 
Candidates Registered Gold Elite Successfully Completed Toppers 
75 03 35 29 02 
  
Jan-April 2018 
Candidates 
Registered 
Gold Elite+Silver Elite Successfully 
Completed 
Toppers 
104 04 22 37 36 05 
 
Recongnition by NPTEL 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

APSIT Toppers July-October 2018 Season 
 
 
NPTEL Certificates Distribution JULY-October 2018 
 

 
 

 

