 
 
PREINCUBATION 
 
SUPPORT THROUGH PRE-INCUBATION FACILITIES-   
To have your own Start-up you need to know the “Technical know-how” of today's industry. Here we 
provide such a pre-incubation centre for students to develop, evolve, and learn from their mistakes 
and progress. Pre -incubator can be defined as a risk -reduced environment where entrepreneurial 
ideas are pre-filtered for market viability thus helping to avoid greater costs and failures of setting up 
new company in the further phases of business development. Besides equity gap lack of pre -seed 
finance is critical to promote business ideas into new innovative firms. In addition to inspiration and 
awareness inventors of new business ideas need professional couching to turn in new firm and follow-
up services (consultations, mentoring, infrastructure) until it is ready to pass the entrance criteria of 
Business world. Without support inventors often fail before or after setting firm. 
 
A. R&D CELL –  
Research and Development cell was established at APSIT to inculcate research and innovative skills 
among faculty and students. R&D Cell provides a platform for creativity and innovation to flourish 
young minds in organization. Innovative breakthroughs will happen only because of meticulous efforts 
of R&D. The organization provides SEED amount to facilitate basic common research infrastructure 
for individuals to execute collaborative work. 
 
B. INDUSTRY INSTITUTE INTERACTION CELL (III CELL) –  
To improve the quality of technical education adequately, to meet the needs of the Industry, society 
and economy, technical education system should operate at optimum efficiency and should produce 
good quality engineers who will deliver quality product to employers. To optimize the deployment of 
physical and human resources of Institutions and Industries in the pursuit of development of technical 
manpower & to enlist participation of industry in technical education programs, with a view to have 
better interaction between Industries and Institute, APSIT has started Industry Institute Interaction 
Cell (IIIC). 
APSITSKILLS CENTER –  
APSIT skills is an initiative of Parshvanath Charitable Trust’s APSIT to provide training and international 
certification in the  futuristic technologies under one roof for engineering graduates in India. APSIT 
Skills Center is an innovative model for teaching and learning globally trending technologies to achieve 
the industrial objective through hands -on training. APSIT offers myriad ways of building engineering 
career through its strong industrial collaborations. College provides opportunities to master globally 
trending technologies certification of future with international at no extra cost. APSIT Skill Centre is 
presented as the most adequate educational methodology for the overall/all -round development of 
students. Students will have hands -on experience, potentiating their personality and taking them 
closer to reality. 
 
 
INDUSTRY COLLABORATIONS WITH APSIT SKILL CENTER  
Following G lobally trending technologies and industries are collaborated with APSIT Skill Centre 
department wise  
A. Computer/Information Technology/Electronics and Telecommunications Engineering 
• NVIDIA Deep Learning Institute   
• Block-Chain Council Membership  
• Redhat Linux Academy Centre  
• Open Source Experimental Lab  
• Oracle Academy  
• AWS Academy & AWS Educate  
• Dell EMC Academic Alliance  
• E-Yantra Robotics Lab  
• Texas Instruments Innovation Centre  
• CISCO Networking Academy  
• Partnership with Leading India  
• VMware IT Academy  
• SAP University Alliance 
• AYURUS Academy Excellence Centre 
• Google Sponsored Machine Learning  
• Game Development Club 
• Unit Game Development Academy Alliance  
• Palo Alto Netwroks Cybersecurity Academy 
• UiPath Academic Alliance  
• Corel Authorized Training Centre 
• Digital Marketing Academy 
• ICT Academy 
• TMF Academy 
B. Mechanical Engineering  
• MSC Software Training Centre  
• Siemens Centre of Excellence  
 
• "Dassault Systems" CLIC Program  
• ANSYS Authorized Training Centre  
• Autodesk Hub  
• E-Yantra Robotics Lab  
• Texas Instruments Innovation Centre  
• BMW Skill Next 
• CNC & VMC Training Academy 
• UiPath Academic Alliance 
• ICY Academy 
C. Civil Engineering  
• MSC Authorised Training Centre  
• Siemens Centre of Excellence  
• Bentley Institute Academic Program  
• Autodesk Hub 
• Oracle Academy  
• "Dassault Systems" CLIC Program  
• ICT Academy 
 
APSIT SKILLS LAB FACILITIES-   
1. AYRUS Centre of Academic Excellence & Innovation  
A.P. Shah Institute of Technology has recently signed a memorandum of Understanding with AYRUS 
Global. Through this MoU AYRUS Global recognizes AP Shah Institute of Technology as an Innovation 
Centre and Academic Excellence Center for AYRUS. Students will be able to use various Sensors, solar 
power based cameras, GPS trackers and home automation kits for their final year BE Project. The aim 
of this academic centre is to provide training to students on  
a. The installation and use of different types of cameras like IP based dome cameras, bullet 
cameras on the 4G network. 
b. Configuration installation & troubleshooting of Digital Video Recorder (DVR). 
c. Installation and application of solar power video doorbell, solar cameras 
d. Installation and use of body camera in the field of Robotics. 
e. Installation and application of various sensors like motion sensor, ceiling mount PIR sensor 
door sensor for home automation and smart home. 
f. Use of Fingerprint, RFID for recording attendance and use of CLOUD software for manpower 
services. 
 
g. Use of Audio & Video conferencing device. 
h. Installation and use of GPS tracker device on a vehicle. 
i. Installation and application of AI based Human Tracking Camera. 
2. ASHNIK Open Source Experimental Lab   
Open Source Experimental Lab for Emerging Technologies’  is a collaborative effort 
of APSIT and ASHNIK to impart skills in the areas of   open source technologies including Database, 
Docker, Elastic Stack Analytics, NGINX, and Cloud Computing to develop suf ficient industry needed 
skills for students. Linux and Open Source are changing the face of computing. Companies large and 
small are embracing Linux and Open Source for many reasons, including cost, reliability, flexibility, and 
availability. Open Source Experimental Lab (OSE Lab) is well equipped with the latest servers. Guidance 
is provided to the students by a team of professors and committee members. The labs are kept open 
after the college hours to enable the students to engage themselves in getting pr acticed with 
Laboratory experiments in their leisure hours. The lab will be used to train the students to make 
experiments to get familiar with the emerging open source technologies. 
ASHNIK and APSIT  have collaborated to set up an “Open Source Experimental  Lab for Emerging 
Technologies” Lab in the campus to help students and faculty members enhance their skills in areas 
of open source technologies including Database, Docker,  Elastic Stack Analytics, NGINX , Cloud and 
Linux Platform. This lab aims at providing knowledge of emerging open source technologies and 
expose students to open source software’s. 
A joint committee has been formed comprising of professors, students, representatives of  APSIT 
and ASHNIK that will continuously discuss on content, del ivery etc. The Committee will monitor and 
review the activities under these program and will also mentor the participating students. While doing 
each program participant will have access to various open source communities for participating in 
their projects on their interest and to get additional study material and resources to interact with 
experts & participate in discussions. 
3. Salesforce Student Chapter    
Salesforce is a customer relationship management solution that brings companies and customers 
together. It’s one integrated CRM platform that gives all your departments — including marketing, 
sales, commerce, and service — a single, shared view of every customer. Deliver the personalised 
experiences your customers expect by using the integrated CRM platform that we call our Salesforce 
Customer 360 Platform. It provides powerful, connected products for improving your marketing, sales, 
commerce, service, IT, and more. When you buy Salesforce, you’re not just buying a CRM platform; 
you’re joining an inclu sive community of over 10 million innovators, disruptors, and community 
shapers we call Trailblazers. With free online learning from Trailhead, they’re learning the skills to 
improve their companies and careers. 
4. e-Yantra Robotics Lab   
To address futuristic needs of industrial automation, eYantra Robotics Lab (eYRL@APSIT) is setup in 
collaboration with IIT Bombay. eYRL facilitates Design and Development of Industrial Robotic 
Automation. Project e-Yantra is an initiative to spread education in embedded sy stems and Robotics 
by IIT Bombay. This program is sponsored by Ministry of Human Resource Development through the 
National Mission on Education through ICT (NMEICT). e-Yantra Lab Setup Initiative (eLSI) supports the 
infrastructure creation at colleges by p roviding a platform for training teachers both in theory and 
 
applications of Robotics. A. P. Shah Institute has established Robotics Lab under E-Yantra Lab with the 
help of eLSI. 
5. MAC Club  
The MAC is a club of students from the APSIT who design & fabri cate solar based automotive which 
are operated by a DC motor. The purpose of the MAC club is to build up interest towards theoretical 
as well as practical knowledge, along with management and team work among under graduate 
students. It gives students hands  on experience in designing & manufacturing. The main aim of the 
club is to reduce the usage of organic fuel powered vehicles and design environment friendly electric 
power vehicles. 
6. Bennet University Times of India Group Partnership with Leading India  
APSIT has a tie up with an initiative by leadingindia.ai on AI and deep learning Skilling and Research 
which is in collaboration with technology giants like Bennett University, Brunel University, IEEE 
computer society, AWS educate, UCL, and many more. It has the potential to change the landscape of 
AI Research in India. Students are provided with the certificates for the workshops and research group 
participations. All the training material required is made available to the students. Assessment of the 
working of the research groups via progress report, Skype Calls, Webinars is done in a professional 
manner. Various competitions in Deep learning are held for the students to give them a chance to put 
their work on display all the above -mentioned facilities a re provided to APSIT students completely 
free of cost. Courses & Workshops: Every year college conducts introductory and advance certification 
courses for APSIT students. 
1. A Course on "AI and Deep learning" for students and faculties 
2. Machine learning Lab 
3. Two days Certification program by Bennett University 
7. 'Utter' Virtual Language Lab  
Utter gives learners access to a fun learning environment that aims at building confidence and giving 
people the opportunity to not only grow in their careers, but their personal lives as well. It’s now a lot 
easier (and a whole lot more fun) to improve your English speaking, reading, and writing skills – 
download Utter, and start the conversation! Learn English with our chatbots for just 10 minutes each 
day, or learn from our teaching experts, and you’ll become more fluent and confident with the English 
language in no time.  
During the early stages of entrepreneurship, having the right environment and the right network is 
highly important. The Pre -Incubation Programs gives a nascent entrepreneur the right platform to 
launch his /her idea and move forward to develop it into a marketable Minimum Viable Product (MVP). 
 
Contact us: Mr. Amol Shinde   
Mobile:   993030 11288 
Email: apsitiic@apsit.edu.in 

