 
 
Steps and Procedure for getting Patent in India 
To understand the Steps and Procedure for getting a Patent in India in a clearer way let’s 
assume, 3 parties as below, 
1. You (the inventor): who has an innovative idea to patent 
2. Patent professional (APSIT IPR CELL) 
3. Patent office/ e-Filing (controller, examiner and other staff) 
We would be seeing what the involvement of each one of them was at every step while 
getting patent. Along the way, we would also be seeing relevant forms and costs involved at 
each stage. So, let’s get started. 
Step 1: Idea incubation phase 
idea incubation phase 
Every creation started with a thought. This step involves effectively capturing your concept, 
gaining clarity on each component of the original concept, and filling in the gaps with 
suitable study and experimentation. 
Include pictures, schematics, or sketches that demonstrate how the invention works. The 
drawings and diagrams should be created in such a way that visual illustrations can better 
explain how the innovation works. They play a crucial function in comprehending your 
creation. 
You do a preliminary search when you have fully captured your original concept with all 
technical specifications. The goal of this search is to obtain answers to queries that will help 
you create a functioning disclosure of your invention. 
Some of the questions in the invention disclosure form would be: 
1) What is the nature of my innovation or idea? What is the mechanism behind it? 
2) What is the problem that my creative concept solves? 
3) What is my invention's field of application? 
4) What are the benefits of my novel idea? 
5) What are the components or parts of my novel idea? 
6) Is it possible for me to create a block diagram, gadget, flowchart, or drawing that better 
describes my invention? 
7) What are the advantages of my innovation above previous art knowledge? 
8) Who are your rivals, and what products or services do they offer...? 
For an inventor, this is the most crucial step in which a concept is transformed from a concept 
to a workable invention disclosure that can be discussed with a patent agency or attorney. We 
offer a detailed section regarding activities to do and worksheets for this key part. Refer to 
the "Idea incubation period" section. 
  
 
Responsibilities 
Inventor- Collect relevant details on an innovative idea and create 
comprehensive invention disclosure 
Patent professional- Receive invention disclosure, perform patentability 
search, provide opinion and draft patent application 
Patent office- patent office/ e-filing  
Costs- There are no costs involved in the idea incubation phase. 
The Outcome of this step: 
The outcome of the idea incubation phase is the creation of a working invention 
disclosure that covers all aspects of your invention completely. And which is 
ready to be shared with a patent professional. 
Step 2: Patentability search (optional step) 
In this step, the patent agent or attorney who is working on your invention helps you in 
finding out whether or not your invention meets all patentability criteria, which are 
• Novelty 
• Non-obviousness 
• Industrial application 
The patentability search aims to determine the innovation's uniqueness and non -obviousness. 
It also finds any possible previous arts (publicly known) relevant to your invention, and based 
on the results, a patent professional's opinion on the patentability of your invention may be 
supplied. 
The patentability opinion may be favourable, negative, or neutral based on the findings 
obtained and examined in a patent ability search report. A favourable patentability opinion 
suggests that you have a strong possibility of getting your innovation patent awarded. 
The patentability report and opinion assist you in deciding whether to pursue a patent or not; 
chances are that what you believed was innovative has previously been patented or is known 
to the public in some way. As a result, this report saves the inventor a lot of time, effort, and 
money by assisting him in deciding whether or not to proceed with the patent applic ation 
procedure.  
Responsibilities 
Inventor: Inventor in India answering questions by a patent professional, reviewing a 
patentability search report, and closest possible prior arts. 
 
Patent professional: In India, understand invention disclosure and performing patentability 
search, prepare a report and give an opinion on patentability. 
Patent office: patent office/ e-filing  
Costs: the professional fees for a patent professional can range from Rs. 1000 to Rs. 2000 for 
performing a patentability search (free for APSIT Students & Staff). 
Time: the time required depends upon the patentable invention. 
 The outcome of this step: 
The outcome of this patentability search report is: 
1. When our invention is compared to the closest potential prior art obtained in the 
patentability search report, the inventive step and new feature will be discovered. 
2. When our invention is compared to the closest potential prior art obtained in the 
patentability search report, the inventive step and new feature will be discovered. 
3. The patentability search report will provide you with an overall view of the state of the art, 
which is the present stage of the technology, and you may discover certain white spots in 
which you may do more study and development. 
4. The inventive step discovered through a patentability search may be used to help write a 
patent application, particularly patent claims, so that our patent application has a strong 
chance of passing the examination stage and being given a patent. 
5. If the patentability assessment is negative, it saves a lot of money and time that would have 
been spent unnecessarily pursuing the patent filing procedure and , ultimately, having the 
application denied. 
Note: In spite of all these benefits of the patentability search, this is an optional step. You 
can choose to directly file the patent application without going for patentability search, which 
is Not recommended by the way. 
Step 3: Patent drafting/writing 
Patent drafting is the process of creating a patent application based on your invention disclosure 
and patentability search report. 
Patent drafting/writing is a specialist profession that takes years of skill and knowledge of 
patent law in order to prepare a solid patent application. Simply read some of your domain ’s 
awarded patents to get an idea.  The patent is a techno -legal document that contains both 
technical and legal information. Writing a patent as a project report or a technical thesis and 
submitting it to the patent office on your o wn would be a mistake that might result in your 
patent being denied.  When drafting claims, writing thorough descriptions, writing multiple 
embodiments of the invention, detailing inventive methods, and so on, there are numerous rules 
to follow and care to take. 
This is one of the most crucial stages in the patent life cycle, and a solid patent application 
produced by an experienced patent agent/attorney should survive not just the examination 
phase until the patent is granted, but also the commercialization phase, when actual money is 
 
produced by licensing or selling patent rights, and where rivals should not be able to get 
around your patent. Writing such a patent application is a skill. 
 
Responsibilities 
Inventor: Inventor in India answering questions by a patent professional, identifying the 
inventive step and providing detailed disclosure if required. Review the patent application. 
Patent Professional: Patent agent or attorney in India writing a patent application that 
provides maximum possible protection to an invention, following all rules for writing a patent 
application. 
Patent office: patent office/ e-filing  
Costs: the professional fees for a patent professional can range from Rs. 7000 to Rs 10000 
for performing a patentability search (free for APSIT Students & Staff) 
Time: the time required is about 15 to 20 working days (Depends upon the meeting with 
the inventor) 
The outcome of this step: 
The outcome of this patent drafting stage is: 
•  A patent application that has been finished and may be submitted with the patent office  
•  Patent application that has been well-prepared by an experienced patent agent/attorney 
and has survived the examination phase, as well as the patent grant and 
commercialization phase. 
Step 4: Filing patent application 
Filing a patent application into the patent office: 
You must decide whether to file a provisional patent application or a full -patent application 
based on the readiness of your idea. If you don't have the whole invention yet and need further 
research and development, but don't want to miss out on the priority date for submitting a patent 
application, a provisional patent application is the way to go . There are many advantages for 
filing a provisional patent application. 
Provisional patent application: 
• When to go for a provisional patent application 
• Advantages, costs 
• elements of the provisional patent application 
• mistakes to avoid  
Patents are territorial in nature, thus if you submit one in India, you will only receive protection 
in India. Then you can't ban people from using inventions outside of India. If you want to 
 
protect your innovation in numerous countries, you'll need to file a patent application with the 
help of a patent agent or attorney. 
International patent application: 
• different options and routes available 
• strategies to go about international patent filing 
• Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) application 
• Paris convention and other routes  
Responsibilities 
Inventor: Inventor in India reviewing patent application. Signing formalities like forms 
(power of attorney) to submit along with the patent application. 
Patent Professional: Patent agent or attorney in India preparing patent application for filing. 
Recommending the best filing route and options for an international patent application (if 
required). Submitting relevant forms and fees in a prescribed manner. 
Patent office: Receive the patent application and provide the receipt along with date and time 
of filing the patent application. 
Costs: Government forms and fees: The relevant form for the patent application is From 1. 
There are many things needed to consider before giving exact fees amount, as it depends on 
the number of sheets in the patent specification, number of claims etc. but below are 
approximate costs for this stage. 
Inventors Individual 
inventors  
Small Entity Other than small 
entity 
Application fees 
INR 
1600 4000 8000 
 
Time: The time required is less than 1 day (if filed online) 
Note: The above-mentioned amount is the minimum amount as per the application. Amount 
may be as per document pages at the time of filing.  
The outcome of this step: 
The outcome of this filing patent application is: 
• You get a receipt for filing a patent application with the invention title, your name, 
and the time and date of filing from a government patent office. 
• Now that your innovation is safe and you've established a priority date for it, you 
don't have to be concerned about its secrecy or safety. 
• The patent application will proceed to the next phase based on the forms, requests, 
and fees filed in accordance with the requirements. 
 
 
 
Step 5: Publication of application 
In most cases, the application is automatically published 18 months after it is filed. The inventor 
is not compelled to pay any fees or take any action. If you don't want to wait until the 18-month 
period has passed, you can request an early publishing with the appropriate p ayments. The 
request for early publishing can be made (optional step) with form 9 and payment of the 
prescribed fee as shown in the table below; in general, the patent application is published within 
a month of receiving the request for early publication. 
Responsibilities 
Inventor: Inventor in India, the, the optional step of filing early publication request along 
with Form 9 and Fees. 
Patent Professional: Patent agent or attorney in India optional step of filing early publication 
request along with Form 9 and Fees. 
Patent office: The patent application is automatically published, or if requested, early 
publication is done. 
Government forms and fees: 
Form 9. Remember, there are no fees for publication of the application automatically after 18 
months of the filing date. The fees mentioned below are an optional step if you want to go for 
early publication request. 
Inventors Individual 
inventors 
Small Entity Other than small 
entity 
Request for early 
publication                   
2500 6250 12500 
 
Step 6: Request for examination (RFE) 
The patent application is only reviewed once a request for examination (RFE) is received. 
Within 48 months of the filing date or priority date, the inve ntor/applicant must file a request 
for examination (RFE). Form 18 is used to create this RFE, and the government costs are listed 
in the table below. 
When the controller receives this request, he or she assigns your patent application to a patent 
examiner, who conducts searches to determine if the invention is patentable (as per 
patentability criteria). The examiner then produces the patent application's first examination 
report (FER). Everything happening to the patent application before the grant of the p atent is 
generally called a patent prosecution. 
The examiner's initial examination report to the controller usually includes previous art 
(documents that existed before the date of filing) that are comparable to the claimed invention, 
 
as well as any objections expressed about the invention's patentability criteria. You (inventor) 
/ patent applicant will receive an examination report (with objections). 
Responsibilities 
Inventor: Inventor in India, the patent agent or patent attorney makes a request for 
examination on behalf of you. Or request for an Expedited examination with form 18 if 
applicable. 
Patent Professional: The patent agent or attorney in India’s request for examination is 
submitted with Form 18 and Fees. Or request for an Expedited examination with form 18 if 
applicable. 
Patent office: Receive request for examination and examiner check patent application for 
patentability and other criteria and generates the first examination report. 
Government forms and fees: 
Form 18. The fees for request for examination RFE is as below. 
Inventors Individual 
inventors 
Small Entity Other than small 
entity 
Request for 
examination 
4000 10000 20000 
 
 
Step 7: Response to objections 
On the basis of the examination report, the majority of patent applicants (inventors) will get 
some form of objection. The best thing to do is work with a patent agent/attorney to evaluate 
the examination report and come up with a solution to the objections highlighted in the report. 
This is an opportunity for an inve ntor to explain the novelty and non -novelty of his or her 
creation based on the type of innovation, Objections received. 
You (as inventor/applicant) have 12 months from the date on which the First Examination 
Report is given to you to respond to the objection made. The inventor and the patent agent 
draught and transmit a response to the objections, attempting to persuade the controller that 
his invention is patentable and meets all patentability requirements. 
Accepts the objections and adjusts the patent application as indicated in the First Examination 
Report, or accepts the objections and adjusts the patent application as indicated in the First 
Examination Report.  
If the controller is pleased with the response to the objections or the revised patent 
application. The patent is given to you (inventor) / applicant as soon as feasible after 
discovering the patent application in order of grant! The grant is entered in the patent register 
with the seal of the patent office and the date of the award. 
 
 
Responsibilities 
Inventor: Inventor in India helps patent agent in technical matters of invention (If required) 
with drafting response for objections. 
Patent Professional: Patent agent or attorney in India draft the response to objections raised 
with the help of the inventor. Or amend the patent application accordingly. Request for 
hearing if desired. 
Patent office: Receive response of objections and decide whether a hearing is needed and 
whether to grant a patent or not. 
Professional Fees: The patent agent/attorney may charge a professional fee to respond to 
objections based on the complexity of the objections and the number of objections received. 
Step 8: Grant of patent 
Once determined that the application meets all patentability conditions, it will be placed in 
line for award. The patent is given to you (inventor) / applicant when it is feasible with the 
seal from the patent office, and the patent award is reported in the patent journal, which is 
published on a regular basis. 
Responsibilities 
Inventor: Inventor in India, the patent is granted to you. As per section 48, you get the right 
to exclude others from using, selling, selling, offering for sale, importing your patented 
invention. 
Patent Professional: Patent agent or attorney in India: Inform the inventor about procedures, 
renewals and communication to the patent office after the grant of the patent. 
Patent office: Grant, the patent for the invention or reject the patent based on the response to 
objections raised. Notify grant of patent in patent journal. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
