 
 
UDDAN INCUBATION CENTRE 
 
INCUBATION FACILITITES  
A start-up incubator is a collaborative program designed to help new start -ups succeed. Incubators 
help entrepreneurs solve some of the problems commonly associated with running a start -up by 
providing workspace, seed funding, mentoring, and training. The sole purpose of a start-up incubator 
is to help entrepreneurs grow their business. 
Usually business incubation is a process of nurturing and developing a new business idea and helping 
businesses to grow and survive. The incubator itself is an environment, either virtual or real, within 
which incubation takes place. The following infrastructural facilities will be offered to the incubatee 
companies on an individual basis, apart from a set of shared/ commo n infrastructure mentioned 
hereinafter: 
 
PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE 
 Fully furnished offices - Office space & basic furniture: Company specific 
 Personal computers, Printers 
 Telecom facilities 
 Broad Band Internet connectivity 
 Laboratory Facilities of Incubation Labs - Access to departmental laboratories and other 
resources for products development purposes 
 
BUSINESS SUPPORT 
 Business plan assistance 
 Mentoring support  - Pool of mentors, experts in technology, legal, financial and related 
matters, with or without consideration 
 Access to professionals with legal, financial, accounting, IP and industry expertise  
 Showcasing events for exhibition of products and solutions 
 Networking events to facilitate interaction with investors and industries Training programmes 
and seminars relevant to entrepreneurs  NEST (such as alumni, Venture Capitalists, industry 
professionals) 
 Consulting services - In addition, APSIT Uddan will also build up information and knowledge 
pool to be useful generically for start-up companies. APSIT Uddan will coordinate with APSIT 
Skills Centre at APSIT on management education and training programmes designed for 
start-up companies. 
 
 
 
 
SHARED RESOURCES 
 Meeting and conference rooms equipped with projectors & audio/video conferencing 
facilities 
 High-end photocopying, fax, scanning machines Pantry facilities 
 Lab facilities 
 Library Facilities 
 
 
ENTREPRENEUR INFRASTRUCTURE 
 Common Computation facilities for the entrepreneurs have been set up. Physical 
infrastructure like office, workshop space on an afforda ble basis is made available to the 
entrepreneurs. 
 
MULTIMEDIA FACILITY 
 Dedicated multimedia facilities for remote board meetings and video conferences are fully 
running. Regular meetings are held with the IIC partners through video conferencing. This is 
to keep pace with the developing technologies in other countries. 
 
LIBRARY FACILITY 
 The incubates at IIC can have access to APSIT, Thane central library at very nominal charges. 
 
ACCESS TO SKILLED RESOURCES 
 IIC is strongly supported by the APSIT Thane, a reputed institute in the field of science and 
technology. APSIT, Thane provides the incubates at IIC with enormous intellectual resources, 
laboratory and library facilities of all the departments in the institute. Our alumni network 
also works for IIC to foster incubation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APSIT PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE: 
 Incubation Space 5000 Sq ft (based on the needs additional Space can be provided) 
 Total Area of College 4.5 Acres 
 Library 22107 Volumes 
 Seating Capacity 300 Seats 
 E-Books 163 
 E-Journals/Learning Resources 55 
 E-Resources Links 
 McGraw hill Express Library: http://mcgrawhilleducation.pdn.ipublishcentral.com/ 110 
 PEARSON EDUCATION INDIA LTD. e-books https://digital-library.pearson-intl.com/ 53 
 NATIONAL DIGITAL LIBRARY OF INDIA https://ndl.iitkgp.ac.in/ 
 NPTEL Courses  https://nptel.ac.in/course.html 
 Koha LIBRARY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM WEB OPAC (online public access catalog)  
 IEEE Xplore Digital Library 
 Video Conferencing Facilities 150 Seats 
 Computers with Peripherals 700 
 Printers 35 
 Scanners 15 
 Projectors 30 
 Communication Facilities: High Band internet Connectivity (can be upgraded as per needs) 
 Power Backup 24x7 Supported with Generator/UPS etc. 
 Laboratories 75 Labs / 3127 Sq. Meters 
 Class Rooms 87 classrooms / 4012 Sq. Meters 
 Dining Areas/Cafeteria 155 Sq. Meters  
 Furniture 1600 capacity, 800 Benches, 125 Tables, 5 Round Tables 
 Seminar Halls/Conference Rooms 667 Sq. Meters 
 Discussion Rooms 50 Sq. Meters 
 
 
 
 
Contact us: Mr. Sushrut Patankar    
Mobile:   97734 23435 
Email: apsitiic@apsit.edu.in 

