 
 
Trademark ™ Standard Operating Procedure 
 
A trademark application can be filed at the Trademark Offices or online at IP India in the 
prescribed form TM -A. Once submitted, an application undergoes different stages like 
trademark examination and publishing in the trademarks journal, before ultimately being 
accepted or rejected. 
 
What is a Trademark? 
A trademark is synonymous with the brand name. It can be a name, logo, device, symbol or a 
word which is used to represent products or services of a business entity. It is a part of 
Intellectual Property and is registered under the Trademarks, Act, 1999. 
According to Section 28 Act, registering a trademark gives the proprietor exclusi ve rights of 
its usage, and you can also ask for relief in case of any infringement. 
 
What can you register as a Trademark? 
Before you file a trademark application, it’s important to decide what you wish to register as 
a trademark. The types of trademarks available in India for registration are – 
• Word Marks 
• Device Marks 
• Product Marks 
• Service Marks 
• Collective Marks 
• Certification Marks 
Shapes, colours and sounds can also be applied for trademark registration in India. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How to file a Trademark in India? 
A trademark in India can be filed by the applicant or by his/her attorney. Below are a few 
steps which will simplify the complete process for you.  
 
Step 1. Trademark Search 
Before filing a trademark application, an online trademark sea rch can be performed in the 
Indian Trademark Registry Database. It helps to identify any similarity from an already 
registered or applied mark. This can either be done by the applicant or by the attorney filing 
on his/her behalf. These are a few methods you can consider to conduct a trademark search 
for your mark  
 
Preliminary Trademark Search 
During an initial trademark search, a mark is searched for any identifying marks or marks 
which are visually confusing or phonetically similar to the applied mark. 
It eliminates any possibilities of objection, infringement or opposition during or after the 
registration of the mark. It will also determine the strength of your mark in the market. The 
applicants can perform the initial trademark search by themselves. 
 
Comprehensive Trademark Search 
This method has a broader scope of eliminating all the factors that might hamper the 
registration of your mark. Only professional attorneys can conduct an extensive search since 
they can access the data from multiple platforms l ike company names, state trademarks, 
publications, domain name database and social media search. 
 
Bonus: Trademark Image Search  
You can check the authenticity of names or words and devices through the above methods. 
However, a logo can also be searched for its distinctiveness. 
Trademark Image Search is a tool which is scale, position and background invariant. It 
compares different logos by visual similarities, design copies or their uniqueness. 
Developed by Quick Company in India, it is of a one -of-a-kind tool which can even search for 
logos applied under different classes. To know more about how to find if a logo is 
trademarked. 
 
 
 
How to find if a Logo is trademarked? 
The trademark Image Search tool is the solution to make sure the logo you wish to trademark 
is not taken by someone else. It will help you to search from a database of different logos in 
India. 
Before applying for the trademark, it is crucial to search thoroughly for the logo you wish to 
associate with your business. Trademark Image Search helps you to know if the proposed logo 
is already trademarked and display visually similar logos. 
 
What is Logo Search? 
Once you have decided on a particular logo which you wish to use, it is essential to get it 
registered. But, before you initiate the reg istration process, it is critical to know its 
distinctiveness. 
A logo is a mirror to the products or services you wish to market, and therefore, it should 
always be relatable. Trademark Logo Search is a tool which is scale, position, and background 
invariant. It compares different logos and provides similar results. 
The tool helps every business to find 
• If there are any similar logos. 
• If the Design is copied. 
• Uniqueness of a shape. 
• Visually similar trademarks especially in case of objection. 
 
Why is Logo Search important? 
To secure a brand, it becomes critical to make sure that the logo you wish to register is distinct 
and not taken by anyone. It safeguards you from infringing on anybody’s rights and restrain 
from the opposition during the registration process. 
Logo Search provides you with the opportunity to search in a vast database of different logos, 
which are already applied under different classes. It is necessary to conduct a logo search if 
you do not wish to get trapped in an objection, opposition or infringement case. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How to find if your logo is taken? 
To search your logo on the tool 
• Go on Trademark Image Search. 
• Click on upload file and attach the image you wish to check. 
The search results will display all the similar logos along with  the class under which they are 
registered. 
Conclusion 
Once you have applied for your trademark, you can use ‘TM’ with the particular logo. It usually 
refers that the logo has been applied for trademark registration while ‘R’ is used for already 
registered logos or designs. 
 
Step 2: Preparing the Application  
A trademark application can be prepared by the applicant or even by his/her attorney. Here’s 
a checklist for trademark registration you must consider while preparing the application. 
• Name of the Applicant 
• The entity of the applicant, i.e., Individual, LLP, Partnership, Company or any other 
legal entity. 
• Name and designation of the authority – the person filing on behalf of the applicant. 
• Details of the mark, i.e., the type of mark applied for registration. 
• Date of usage of the mark in India or outside India. 
• Description of goods or services under which the mark will be registered.  
 
Step 3: Filing the Application  
Once the application is prepared, it can be filed at the Trademark Registration Office through 
e-filing or by speed posts. A single application can be used to file a trademark in multiple 
classes. The applications are received at the Trademarks Registry Office on all working days 
while e-filing can be done at all hours. (24x7) 
While applying for a trademark, make sure – 
• The documents must be handwritten, printed or typewritten in Hindi or English. 
• The documents must contain the signatures of the applicant with a date or of the 
authority filing on behalf of the applicant. 
• Date and place of filing. 
• In the case of e-filing, digital signatures will be required for signing the documents. 
 
In case more than one person is filing the trademark, it must be signed by each applicant if an 
agent or attorney is not applying it.  
The filing  of the trademark application takes about one or two working days. Once an 
application is filed, you will get an application number to track the status of your application. 
All the applications that are sent through speed posts must be submitted along with  the 
prescribed fee either in the form of cash, bank draft or cheque drawn from the bank where 
the Registry Office is established. The cheques and bank drafts must be crossed.  
E-filing has a separate payment gateway available on the IP India website. 
 
How much does trademark registration cost in India? 
There are various stages a trademark application undergoes, each stage there is a government 
fee that needs to be paid. 
Application for registration Physical Filing E-filing 
For Individuals 5000 4500 
For Companies 10,000 9,000 
 
Note: The fee mentioned above includes only the government fee. Professional fees of the 
CA’s or Attorneys may vary depending on firms/professionals. 
A ‘TM’ symbol can now be used by the applicant to identify that his/her mark is in the process 
of trademark registration. 
 
Bonus: Don’t forget these requirement  
There are a few compliances which can slow down the speed of your trademark registration 
in case you miss out on these filing requirements. 
• The prescribed fee must be paid a long with the concerned documents or else the 
documents will not be taken into any account. 
• Dishonoured or non-realization of cheque/demand draft will also be treated as non -
payment of the fee. 
• The application must not be left unsigned. 
• All the information provided by the applicant must be checked for authenticity. 
• Mention the correct trademark class during the filing process. 
 
 
 
 
 
What happens after you file an application? 
Once you file an application, it goes through several stages of examination at the Trademark 
Registry Office. The steps are - 
1. Examination  
After the successful filing of the trademark applications, they are allotted to a trademark 
examiner to check for any discrepancies in the form or filing procedure. The allotment is done 
according to the date and time of the submission of the applications. Form TM-63 can be filed 
if you want your application to be examined on a priority basis. 
The examiner can accept or object the trademark application based on different provisions 
mentioned in the Trademark Law. The examination of the application can take 12-18 months. 
{Section 9 and 11 of the Act elaborates the different grounds on which an application can be 
objected.} 
In case of any objection  
The applicant is issued an examination report in case and an objection is raised by the 
examiner. The applicant has to revert with a reply within one month to the examiner. 
The examiner can list the application for hearing in the court in case he/she is not convinced 
by the applicant’s reply to the examination report. 
In case of Acceptance  
Once the application is accepted for registration, it goes for publishing in the Trademark 
Journal. 
 
2. Accepted and Advertised  
The mark is available for opposition to the general public once it is published in the jo urnal. 
This is done for 90 days so that any party can oppose the mark on the basis of similarity or 
deceiving the customers. 
In case there is no opposition. 
If the mark is not opposed by any party within the stipulated time, then the application 
proceeds for registration. 
In case there is an opposition. 
The court gives a fair chance of hearing both the parties in case a third party has raised an 
opposition to the applied mark. 
 
 
Form and Fees 
 
       Payable For         Form Filed       Govt. fees (INR) 
The opposition to the 
applied mark TM-O  NA 
For Physical Filing  NA 3000 
For e-filing  NA 2700 
 
Note: The fee mentioned above includes only the government fee. Professional fees of the 
CA’s or Attorneys may vary. 
 
Registration of the mark 
The applicant is issued a registration certificate with a seal of the Trademark Office claiming 
successful registration of the applied mark as a trademark. The certificate is sent to the 
concerned address via speed post from the Registry Office. 
The applicant can now use th e symbol ® with his/her brand name after receiving the 
registration certificate. 
 
At the end, 
The Trademark Registration is valid for 10 years after which you require to renew the 
registration to extend its protection. Trademark Renewal helps you to protect the trademark 
for another TEN Years and enjoy the exclusive rights as a registered proprietor. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference: https://ipindia.gov.in/ 
