   
 
START UP PROCESS APSIT 
 
A. CONTACT APSIT-IIC   
We encourage inventor student/faculty to discuss your invention and how to protect the 
intellectual property and to check the suitability of a start -up. In our initial meeting we will 
discuss about project goals, objectives for advancing the idea and any r esearch or 
understandings of the market need required to move forward the idea.   
 
B. PROTECT INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 
A key source of value and thus a major asset for attracting investment in a start -up is IP that 
is intellectual property. Work with APSIT-IIC to file a patent application filed on your invention 
before you make it public. After public disclosure, obtaining a patent option may no longer 
be possible.  
The Invention Disclosure is a confidential document, and should fully describe the new 
aspects of the invention, including the critical solution it provides and its advantages and 
benefits over current technologies. Invention disclosures can be submitted through APSIT IIC.  
(If appropriate, necessary, or warranted) Patent protection, a common legal protection 
method, begins with the filing of a patent application with the India Patent and Trademark 
Office and, when appropriate, foreign patent offices. 
 
C. SEEK INPUT AND NETWORK 
APSIT-IIC provides a wealth of resources to get started through all facet s of the start -up 
process—from writing a business plan, to meeting like -minded entrepreneurs and investors, 
to attracting board members, to securing funding to demonstrate an invention’s commercial 
viability. Work with a mentor regularly, network with like -minded entrepreneurs, review 
ideas with potential investors, and evaluate the commercial aspects with potential customers.  
 
D. PLAN THE BUSINESS 
No formal business plan is needed however develop an understanding of the market 
potential, competition, funding needs, and how you develop a product and adequate profit 
to survive and grow the company. APSIT -IIC would provide a guidance on competitive 
analysis, market assessment, and business planning. 
   
 
 
E. NEGOTIATE THE LICENSE OR OPTION AGREEMENT 
To demonstrat e to potential financiers that the company has secured the rights to the 
technology, obtain a license or a short term option agreement from APSIT. APSIT-IIC will lead 
these negotiations along with a representative of the company. 
Most start-ups request an exclusive license because they believe it is required to raise funding 
for the company. Typical terms for an exclusive license with a start -up company include but 
are not limited to equity, royalties’ diligence milestones and fees. 
 
F. PURSUE FUNDING 
Typically an external capital is required for the commercialization of the technology. You will 
need to connect with the people providing funds like venture capitalists, angel investors, and, 
perhaps, in the initial stages friends and the family. APSIT -IIC assists in making connections 
with entrepreneurs, angel investors, and venture capitalists. 
 
 
Contact us: Ms. Dipali Rajguru / Mr. Aakash Vichare     
Mobile:   81690 99631 / 86557 40745 
Email: apsitiic@apsit.edu.in 
 
 

