Vision and Mission (T & P) | APSIT
Skip to main content
Our Recruiters
About Training and Placement
Training and Placement department is dedicated towards proper placement of students .It advices students on career options and provides the latest information on training & employment opportunities.
Focus areas are providing guidance, counseling and bringing students and potential employers together to achive the best possible placement depending on the market conditions .The department looks after the interest of the students and the employers by providing them the necessary platform.
Objective
To organize campus recruitment for final year students in reputed companies.
To facilitate companies for recruiting candidates as per their requirements.
Creating awareness amongst the students regarding various career options.
To enhance students employability by providing training in Aptitude & soft skills.
Helping students for summer training/internship programme.
Bridging gap between Industry and Academia through:
Seminars, Guest Lectures, Conferences, Corporate Meets & Industrial Visits etc.
Coordinating with various departments for imparting value added industry skills.
Our Recruiters
About Training
The objective of the training department is to match the corporate expectations by providing them Soft skills, Aptitude & Technical training.
The effectiveness of these training is evident from the consistent placement results. Several companies have been visiting the college every year to tap and recruit the young talented students.
Guest lectures & Mock interview sessions are being organized with the help of industry experts to bridge the gap between industry & academia.
A separate training department focuses on the all-round growth of students by offering certifications such as MTA, PTC, Cloud computing, Java, .net, Big Data, Robotics, Design and simulation keeping each student's core subject and year in mind.
Training Process
Training & Placement Polices
The role of the Training and Placement Cell is of a facilitator and councillor for placement related activities. Training and Placement cell does not guarantee a job.
Students to consult their Training & Placement Department before registration for the Industry in case of queries.
The information about the placement opportunities, schedules etc. will be displayed on T&P Notice Board, near Reception. Students must read this board daily. WhatsApp messages also will be given. After that, no responsibility of  providing info lies with T&P Dept.
It is Mandatory for the students interested in Campus Placement to attend various Training programs/ sessions arranged at Institute level.
Attending interview without basic preparation (profile/company info etc.) will lead to debarment for few months
Once registered, students CAN NOT back out from the further interview processes.
Non Attendance for the interview process without prior permission of T&P office, will lead to disqualification from Campus Placement Activities permanently.
Once shortlisted, it is mandatory for the students to go through the subsequent selection processes. Attending process casually, underperforming is a disqualification for further opportunities.
Institute formals during campus process is Mandatory.
About Training & Placement Cell.
The Training and Placement cell plays a crucial role in reducing the gap between the Campus and Corporate. It is the dream of every engineering student to get placed in a top organization visiting their campus for recruitment. The Cell operates round the year to facilitate contacts between Hiring Companies and Graduates.
The objective of APSIT, Training & Placement Cell is to place all eligible students in reputed IT and core manufacturing, infrastructure companies right at the campus itself. To achieve this objective the cell liaises with the various industrial establishments, corporate houses which conduct campus interviews and select students from all disciplines, by identifying their knowledge skills, attitude matrices of every individual student, creating job profiles for them, identifying areas of training & various methods as per the training requirement.
The challenge today is to make students more competent, and ‘Industry Ready’.
Companies Requirement
Excellent Aptitude
Technical Expert
Soft Skills
Positive Approach
Thus, College Aim at
Bridging the Gap between Industry and Academics
Enhancing Employability
Developing All-round Personality
Inculcating Managerial Skills.
Training and Placement Cell Activities:
Arranging in-plant training and industrial visits, during every academic year.
Facilitate Student Internships, during every academic year
Organizing guest lectures by inviting Corporate Professionals & distinguished Educationists/Academicians.
Imparting personality development programs to enhance the soft skills & Communications skills of the Students.
To motivate aspiring students to prepare for higher studies and guiding them to take exams such as CAT, GATE, TOEFL, GRE, IES, UPSC, TNPSC etc.
Conducting Mock & Preparatory Tests to take up competitive examinations for Higher Studies or for Employment
Ensuring training for students during vacations, by proven & reputed firms both on General Aptitude and Technical Aptitude
Arranging ON / OFF campus interviews.
Communication, Aptitude and Personality Training is imparted to the Students from 2nd year onwards and will be an on-going affair till the odd-semester of their final year.
Training Module consists of the following
Technical Aptitude
Communication Skills
General Aptitude
Quantitative Reasoning
Logical Reasoning
Verbal Reasoning
Group Discussion
Interview Skills
College Offers Expertise on:
Placement Process:
Contact Info
Address: Survey No. 12, 13
Opp. Hypercity Mall, Kasarvadavali,
Ghodbunder Road, Thane West,
Thane, Maharashtra 400615
Phone: 022-25973737
[email protected]
Mobile: 7738305400 / 7738940600
Exam (for exam/transcripts related queries contact:
[email protected]
,
[email protected]
)