 
        APSIT’S Xpression CLUB       
 
Why Xpression Club: 
APSIT Communication Club aims to create a supportive, learning environment for every 
person who wishes or needs to improve their communication skills and confidence. This 
club will have faculties as guides and mentors to help the students to develop solid 
communication skills which will be helpful for them in their career and personal life. 
Engineering is a multidisciplinary profession. For engineers to be successful over the course 
of their careers, communication skills are just as important as technical knowledge. A 
single project may involve teamwork with business specialists, psychologists and public 
health officials, to name a few. The ability to collaborate and communicate effectively with 
a diverse team, as well as express complex concepts to a non-technical audience, is an 
asset. One of the best ways to deal with such scenarios is by learning and practicing good 
communication skills. 
With the motive of enhancing the communication skills of our students we at APSIT have 
initiated the “Communication Skill Enhancement Activity ”. As a part of this activity, every 
student’s participation is ensured, where each student speaks on a topic of his/her choice 
for about 5 mins. The student is monitored by faculty and suggested improvements. Also a 
video recording of the same is preserved for self-assessment purpose by the student. The 
said activity has helped students improve their verbal skills. Students who qualify with 
excellent skills are then promoted to Xpression Club, wherein they are exposed to other 
challenging activities like group discussion, Ted Talks, debates, etc. The cumulative motive 
of this initiative is to help students steadily enhance their interpersonal skills which in turn 
will boost their self confidence which is utmost important during placement drives and at 
large for their professional career. 
Guidelines for Students: 
• Students are required to choose different topics and the number of topics will be equal to 
number of practical /tutorial heads in that semester. 
• A Student is expected to deliver talk only once in a semester in each practical / tutorial 
head. 
• A Student is required to present the topic in the practical session for at least 3 to 5 
minutes. 
• Guidelines for selection of topic will be provided however, the topic shall not be biased on 
any religious or politically sensitive issues. 
• Student needs to preserve the recordings of all the presentations done during the semester 
which will be helpful for self-assessment. 

• Student should take self-initiative and utilize facilities like softwares installed in language 
lab provided by institute to improve communication skills. 
• Any suggestions that will help improve this communication enhancement program are 
welcome. 
• Once the students reach to a particular proficiency level, they will be promoted to the 
APSIT’S Xpession Club after undergoing a screening test where they can work on other 
aspects of communication skills. 
 
 

