Home | APSIT
Skip to main content
Toggle navigation
Parshvanath Charitable Trust's A. P. Shah Institute of Technology
(Religious Jain Minority Institute, Affiliated to University of Mumbai, Approved by AICTE Delhi & DTE)
Survey no 12, 13, Opp. Hypercity Mall, Kasarvadavali, Ghodbunder Road, Thane (W) 400 615, Maharashtra. Mob: 7738305400
Main navigation
Home
About
About
Approvals
Institutional Development Plan
APSIT-NIRF DATA
NBA Accreditation
Mandatory Disclosure
Balance Sheet
Admin
Governing Body
Principal
Controller of Examination
Board of Management
Academic Council
Board of Studies
Finance Committee
Internal Complaint Committee
Student Grievance Redressal Committee(SGRC)
Academic Leadership
Academics
Details of Academic Programs
Academic Calendar
Statutes/Ordinances pertaining to Academics/Examinations
Departments
AI and ML
Data Science
Computer  Engineering
Civil Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Information Technology
Vision and Mission
Faculty profile
Activities
Laboratories
Student Committee
Humanities and Applied Sciences
Library
Library Policy
Library Services
Rules for Students
Academic Collaborations
Mechanical  Engineering
Computer Engineering/IT/ EXTC
Civil Engineering
Syllabus
Computer Engineering
Information Technology
CSE AI & ML
CSE Data Science
Honors & Minor Degree
Admissions
Prospectus
Admission process and guidelines
Fee Refund Policy
Institute Brochure 2025-26
Admission Criteria
Fee Structure 2025-26
Admission FAQ's
Research
Entrepreneurship Development Cell
Research & Development
IPR
Start-Up policy
Central Facilities
Student Life
Sports Facilities
National Service Scheme (NSS)
Placements
About us
Placement Record
Training and Placement Officer
Student Grievance Redressal Committee(SGRC)
Health Facilities
Internal Complaint Committee
Anti-Ragging Cell
Facilities for differently-abled
Academic Initiatives
Attendance Reward Scheme
E-Learning Platform
NPTEL Local Chapter
IIT Bombay Super Resource Center
Xpression Club
Free GATE/GRE*/CAT* Coaching
Aptitude Training
Project Based Learning (PBL)
The MAC Club
Foreign Language Courses
ICASTe 2k19 Conference
Mentoring
Institution's Innovation Council - IIC
Counselling
Counselor
FAQ's
Industry Institute Interaction Cell
Exalt : Technical Fest
Student Council
Women Development Cell
Equal Opportunity Cell - APSIT
Socio-Economically Disadvantaged Groups Cell (SEDG)
Alumni
Alumni Association with details
Information
Announcements
Circulars & Notices
Newsletters
Job Openings
Gallery
Photos
Contacts
Convocation Ceremony @APSIT
Our Recruiters
Capgemini Placed Students of 2025 Batch
LTI Mind Tree Placed Students
APSIT: Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE), Maharashtra-Goa has awarded. APSIT "The Best Engineering College" and "Best Principal"
AurionPro Placed Students
More news.
APSIT provides FULL FEE RETURN to students, who wish to be a part of Indian Army :
APSIT Management Committee took a revolutionary decision of providing full
fee return
to students, in a view to encourage and boost a feeling of
NATIONALISM
and
INTEGRITY
in the nation.
Winners of the Thane Smart City Hackathon and Start-up Pitch fest
Arun Mathai & Atharva Sunil Dhamankar (SE Comps)
Topic-Priority Based Traffic Manipulation (Safety &Security)
Anuj Mishra & Ishan Sathe (BE COMPS)
Topic- E-waste management using Block chain (Solid Waste Management))
Aaditya Muley,Vatsal Mehta & Vedant Mhatre (BE COMPS)
Topic- Public Health Domain - Emergency Ambulance Application
APSIT Student Makes
DTE Web Portal
:
NBA Status Portal developed for Maharashtra Government by APSITians !
Congratulations to Mr.Sandeep Khuperkar for being selected as Exemplary Mentor of Change For Niti Aayog Atal Innovation Mission!!!
Team Modified Auto Club
Useful Links
ARIIA report 2021
FEEDBACK BY AICTE
DSE Student ID 2024-25
FE Student ID 2024-25
Instruction for Reciept
Course Trainer Registration
Anti Ragging Applications
Directorate of Technical Education
Transcript Application Form
LOR Application Form
Institute Prospectus
Mandatory Disclosure
Mumbai University
Online Grievance Redressal
Religious Minority Affidavit Format
Upload Photograph For ID card
BE Exam University Circular 2020
Faculty Application Form
GATE 2025 Achievers !!!
Institute Recognitions
Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE), Maharashtra-Goa has awarded APSIT "The Best Engineering College" and "Best Principal" in 2023.
Click here to read more...
Placements @ APSIT
Congratulations to
Mr. Siddharth Singh, Mr. Harmit Saini, Mr. Dervanshu Mahapatra
on their selection at JTP,  Japan, with a salary of 24 LPA!
The Placement Department is dedicated to provide placements in top global companies. With a proven track record of success, we ensure every student accesses opportunities that launch their career to new heights. Join us and achieve your career goals with our unparalleled support and guidance.
Click here to read more...
Student Achievements
APSIT Teams Win 1st Prize in Smart India Hackathon 2023.
APSIT celebrates as two teams clinch the top prize of Rs. 1 Lakh each in the 2023 Smart India Hackathon, hosted by the Government of India. The victory showcases APSIT's innovation and technological excellence. Congratulations to the winning teams for their outstanding achievement!
Click here to read more...
Sports 2025
Convocation Ceremony
APSIT: An institute that grooms industry - ready futuristic technocrats
Article published in Times of India; Date: 18/07/2022
AP Shah Institute of Technology, Thane offers engineering degree courses in Civil, Mechanical, Computer Engineering and Information Technology. These courses are accredited by National Board of Accreditation (NBA). Accreditation is a conformation and assurance to students and parents regarding quality of teaching learning practices followed in an Engineering Institute. Institute’s commitment to deliver latest in pedagogic is recognized by accreditation from STEM USA. Recently, the institute has also added courses in Computer Science & Engineering with specialization in Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning and Data Science.
Read More...
Modified Auto Club (MAC)
Institute Facilities:
NBA Accreditation
NBA (National Board of Accreditation) has accredited five undergraduate engineering courses / programs at A.P. Shah Institute of Technology, Thane. The courses accredited are Civil Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Computer Engineering and Information Technology. We also offer engineering courses in Computer Science and Engineering (ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND MACHINE LEARNING) and Computer Science and Engineering (DATA SCIENCE).
APSIT was established in 2014. Probably, APSIT is the first engineering college in India that has all courses accredited by NBA in the shortest possible time since it started functioning.
The college took a roaring jump in introducing new practices like e-learning platform, Moodle, Project Based Learning, 40 plus tie-up with technology world leaders under Apsit.
Experiential learning at APSIT is also recognized by US-based organization by awarding STEM accreditation.
Institute Vision:
APSIT aspires to be a premier institute producing globally competent engineering professionals to contribute towards socio-economic growth of India.
Institute Mission:
To provide conducive and collaborative environment to meet contemporary & future Engineering challenges by project based and value-added education with the support of trained faculty.
Testimonials
Dharmendra Kumar.
Sr.Associate HR at TCS.
A P Shah Institute of Technology is one of the best institutes in Mumbai. The students from APSIT are hardworking and sincere. Any recruiter is looking for three basic qualities in a student - technical know how, discipline and adaptability. Students from APSIT posses the above qualities which makes them an employer's choice.
Click here to read more...
Industry Collaborations:
AYRUS Academy Excellence Centre
In AYRUS Academy Excellence Centre students use various Sensors, solar power based cameras, GPS trackers and home automation kits for their final year BE Project.
Juniper Networks® Cloud and Automation Academy (JNCAA)
Juniper Networks® Cloud and Automation Academy (JNCAA) provides the opportunity APSITians to develop knowledge that reflects networking industry trends, with a focus on cloud solutions, network automation, and DevOps.
Virtusa
Virtusa has established its centre of excellence (CoE) focused on Java Full Stack Development @ APSIT  which aims to hone, engage and incubate talent to bridge the Academia-Industry requirements.
Nvidia DGX Workstation
APSIT has Nvidia DGX Workstation (A Workgroup Appliance FOR THE AGE OF AI) to provide students fastest start in Data Science & AI Research as well as to experience data center performance without establishing data center.
iOS Lab
APSIT has established a cutting-edge iOS Lab to equip young graduates in a variety of disciplines that drive the digital world, such as mobile computing, multimedia, cloud computing, and cross-platform application development.
Celonics
Celonis Academic Alliance @ APSIT aims to empower and encourage the Process Miners of tomorrow to share in learning and experiencing the power of process-oriented data science across the globe.
MSC Training Centre
MSC Apex Modeler is a CAE specific direct modelling and meshing solution that streamlines CAD clean-up, simplification and meshing workflow.
In introducing the current trend in Automotive Industry and making the student ready for Future Technologies through Methodical and Practical way.
Focus on training in High-End Technologies for which there exists a Gap.
NVIDIA Deep Learning Institute
NVIDIA has setup fully optimized AI Software - Deep Learning GPU Training System (DIGITS)
including, NVIDIA driver, NVIDIA® CUDA® Toolkit, NVIDIA® DIGITSTM SW, NVIDIA® cuDNNTM, Caffe,
Theano, Torch, BIDMach, NVIDIA RAPIDS for end-to-end data science and analytics pipelines and NVIDIA DGX Server in APSIT.
Texas Instruments Innovation Center
Texas Instruments Innovation  Center (TIIC@APSIT) offers opportunity to learn design of Internet of Things (IoT) systems using Texas Instruments, USA modules. TIIC caters to career building to suit Industry 4.0 needs.
Blue Prism
Blue Prism Academy at APSIT deliver authorized Blue Prism courses in a variety of settings. Students can jump-start their career and RPA knowledge with coursework through a global network of colleges and universities, and through online certification opportunities, hands-on labs, and other Blue Prism learning resources.
The "Dassault Systems" SOLID WORKS
Intuitive 3D design and product development solutions from SOLIDWORKS help you conceptualize, create, validate, communicate, manage, and transform your innovate ideas into great product designs.
Android Club
Gaming Club
where students from APSIT have created
computer
games
and
computer graphics
using
Unreal & Unity Engines
.
Bentley Institute Academic Program
APSIT with Bentley Institute Academic Program provides the use of over 50 different Bentley software products including STAAD.Pro, MicroStation, WaterGEMS, AECOSim Building Designer etc. and many more, for both classroom and home use. With the Bentley Institute Academic Program, students gain a foundation in technology to become ‘job-ready’.
Autodesk Training Centre
APSIT is Autodesk Training Center(ATC) and Learning Partner. The courses cater to 3D Modeling and Animation, CAD/CAM, CAE, Prototyping and Simulation, Building Information Modeling(BIM)
Oracle Academy
Oracle Academy is a collaborative effort of APSIT & Oracle Corporation, USA to impart skills leading to global certifications in the domains like JAVA Programming, Database Design & Programming & PL/SQL.
e-Yantra Robotics Lab
To address futuristic needs of industrial automation, eYantra Robotics Lab (eYRL@APSIT) is setup in collaboration with IIT Bombay. eYRL facilitates Design and Development of Industrial Robotic Automation.
AWS Academy & AWS Educate
Amazon Web Services & Educate program prepares students for booming technology of Cloud Computing. AWS certification is a doorway to IT industry.
CISCO Networking Academy
CISCO Networking Academy has been set up in collaboration with Cisco Inc. USA. Courses lead to global certifications in the areas of Cybersecurity, IOT, Routing & Switching.
Partnership with Leading India
APSIT joined the Leading India program of Government of India whose objective is to make Deep Learning and AI skills mainstream in India to fulfill trilateral needs of entrepreneurship, Industry academia partnership and application-inspired Engineering Research.
Red Hat Academy
Red Hat Academy is a collaborative effort of APSIT & Red Hat,Inc USA to impart the skills  leading to global certifications in the areas of Core System Administration, Middleware Developement & Microservices.
ANSYS Training Center
Students
ANSYS provides outstanding value, laying the foundation for educational and other opportunities that arise from using best-in-class engineering simulation tools. The high-performance bundles of
ANSYS simulation technology include structural, thermal, fluid dynamics, explicit dynamics, electronics and multiphysics solvers, ANSYS Workbench, CAD import tools, solid modeling, advanced meshing, and
post-processing features.
BMW Skill Next
Students
will have
handson
experience on BMW
Twin Power Turbo, Inline 4 cylinder diesel engine, eight-speed Steptronic, automatic transmission units will be installed.
ICT Academy
The aim of India’s higher education system is attaining sustainable development and achieving higher growth rates which could be enabled through creation, transmission and dissemination of knowledge. Higher education at all levels in the country is witnessing a consistent growth pattern marked by the setting up of new institutions and the improvement of the existing ones.
Palo Alto Networks Cybersecurity Academy
Become Palo Alto Networks Certified Cybersecurity Associate (PCCSA) possessing knowledge of cutting-edge technology available today to manage the cyber threats of tomorrow. Academy curriculum is aligned with the U.S. National Initiative for Cyber Security Education.
Microchip Technology Incorporated
Microchip Academy at APSIT  is intended to increase the awareness and knowledge of embedded applications and inspire students to become the innovators of the future.
College Initiatives:
E-Learning Platform
Moodle is an E-Learning Management System @ APSIT. Faculty can upload teaching resources like Lecture notes, Assignments & Videos on Moodle. Students can access these resources from their Mobile at anytime & from anywhere. Students & Parents can monitor their Academic Progress on Moodle.
The MAC Club
Modified Auto Club(MAC) is a group of interdisciplinary students having flair of design and development of eco friendly solar battery operated automobiles.
Aptitude Training
We train students for aptitude test which is essentially a screening test to shortlist interview candidates. The test addresses the areas of logical reasoning, critical thinking, problem solving skills.
Project Based Learning
Having
"
PRACTICAL"
knowledge is more rewarded today !!! This concept of LEARNING from industry professionals make more fun to learn and innovative rather than rote learning.
Free GATE/GRE*/CAT* Coaching
An initiative to prepare students for post graduation studies in India and abroad.
FREE Foreign Language Courses
An
Opportunity to learn
JAPANESE,
FRENCH, SPANISH, GERMAN, STANDARD MANDARIN (CHINA)
to improve placement opportunities worldwide.
Udaan Incubation Center
To have your own Startup you need to know the "
Technical know-how  "
of today's industry . . . Here we provid
e such an
incubation center
for students to
d
evelop , evolve , and learn
from their mistakes and PROGRESS.
Xpression Club
Expression club is an initiatives for soft skills development like business communication, writing skill improvement, mock interviews, group discussion, public speaking. APSIT offers individual copy of Times of India news paper to improve newspaper reading habits to keep students updated with current affairs.
NPTEL Local Chapter
National Programme on Technology Enhanced Learning(NPTEL)
is an initiative by seven
Indian Institutes of Technology
(
IIT Bombay, Delhi, Guwahati, Kanpur, Kharagpur, Madras and Roorkee
) and Indian Institute of Science
for creating course contents in engineering. Students and faculty undergo courses designed by IITians and obtain certification in various domains of engineering.
Attendance Rewards!!
Regularity of student meets values here !!!  Now Student gets AMAZING PERKS for JUST being :
REGULARLY PRESENT IN COLLEGE . . . include a Rs.1000  Coupon . . .
Pearson & Tata McGraw-Hill Online Library
eLibrary
is Pearson & Tata McGraw-Hil flagship eBook offering for libraries. With over
4,000
eBooks, eLibrary is one of the largest and most comprehensive eBook collection from any publisher.
24/7
access,
365
days a year for all the subscribed books
Lakshya: A Techno-social Initiative
Lakshya is a group of volunteer students devoted for social service like cleanliness drives, technology awareness programs and providing  technology solutions to initiatives like smart cities that improves qual;ity of living for society at large.
Search
Anti-ragging
Grievance Redressal
Notifications
Scholarships
College Development Committee
Admission Notification
Latest News!!!
National Level Hackthon - Hackscript6.0
OJUS-Cultural-Festival 2025
Capgemini Placement Drive
DSW Placement Drive
Exceller Tech Placement Drive
Aurinpro Placement Drive
Paramatrix Placement Drive
SnapWorks Placement Drive:
Exceller Placement Drive:
Virtusa Placement Drive:
Wipro Placement Drive:
Hexaware Placement Drive:
TCS Placement Drive:
Capegemini Placement Drive:
Headstrait Placement Drive:
"Hackwave 2024"
Gold Medal in Powerlifting!!!
Media Appreciation & Recognition
APSIT'S Best Practices Recognized by National Media
APSIT bagged The Best Emerging Engineering College Award
APSIT bagged the best emerging engineering college award at Radio City 91.1 City Icon Awards 2018.
Placement News!!!
Aurionpro Placement Drive
Capgemini Placement Drive
Exceller Tech Placement Drive
DSW Placement Drive
Paramatrix Placement Drive
SnapWorld Placement Drive
Exceller Placement Drive
Virtusa Placement Drive
Contact Info
Address: Survey No. 12, 13
Opp. Hypercity Mall, Kasarvadavali,
Ghodbunder Road, Thane West,
Thane, Maharashtra 400615
Phone: 022-25973737
[email protected]
Mobile: 7738305400 / 7738940600
Exam (for exam/transcripts related queries contact:
[email protected]
,
[email protected]
)
Powered by
Drupal
.
By continuing past this page, you agree to our Terms of Service, Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy and Content Policies. All trademarks are properties of their respective owners.
© APSIT. All rights reserved.