Vision and Mission (T & P) | APSIT
Skip to main content
Toggle navigation
Parshvanath Charitable Trust's A. P. Shah Institute of Technology
(Religious Jain Minority Institute, Affiliated to University of Mumbai, Approved by AICTE Delhi & DTE)
Survey no 12, 13, Opp. Hypercity Mall, Kasarvadavali, Ghodbunder Road, Thane (W) 400 615, Maharashtra. Mob: 7738305400
Main navigation
Home
About
About
Approvals
Institutional Development Plan
APSIT-NIRF DATA
NBA Accreditation
Mandatory Disclosure
Balance Sheet
Admin
Governing Body
Principal
Controller of Examination
Board of Management
Academic Council
Board of Studies
Finance Committee
Internal Complaint Committee
Student Grievance Redressal Committee(SGRC)
Academic Leadership
Academics
Details of Academic Programs
Academic Calendar
Statutes/Ordinances pertaining to Academics/Examinations
Departments
AI and ML
Data Science
Computer  Engineering
Civil Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Information Technology
Vision and Mission
Faculty profile
Activities
Laboratories
Student Committee
Humanities and Applied Sciences
Library
Library Policy
Library Services
Rules for Students
Academic Collaborations
Mechanical  Engineering
Computer Engineering/IT/ EXTC
Civil Engineering
Syllabus
Computer Engineering
Information Technology
CSE AI & ML
CSE Data Science
Honors & Minor Degree
Admissions
Prospectus
Admission process and guidelines
Fee Refund Policy
Institute Brochure 2025-26
Admission Criteria
Fee Structure 2025-26
Admission FAQ's
Research
Entrepreneurship Development Cell
Research & Development
IPR
Start-Up policy
Central Facilities
Student Life
Sports Facilities
National Service Scheme (NSS)
Placements
About us
Placement Record
Training and Placement Officer
Student Grievance Redressal Committee(SGRC)
Health Facilities
Internal Complaint Committee
Anti-Ragging Cell
Facilities for differently-abled
Academic Initiatives
Attendance Reward Scheme
E-Learning Platform
NPTEL Local Chapter
IIT Bombay Super Resource Center
Xpression Club
Free GATE/GRE*/CAT* Coaching
Aptitude Training
Project Based Learning (PBL)
The MAC Club
Foreign Language Courses
ICASTe 2k19 Conference
Mentoring
Institution's Innovation Council - IIC
Counselling
Counselor
FAQ's
Industry Institute Interaction Cell
Exalt : Technical Fest
Student Council
Women Development Cell
Equal Opportunity Cell - APSIT
Socio-Economically Disadvantaged Groups Cell (SEDG)
Alumni
Alumni Association with details
Information
Announcements
Circulars & Notices
Newsletters
Job Openings
Gallery
Photos
Contacts
Our Recruiters
Placements
About us
Our Recruiters
Training
Placement Record
T & P Policies
T & P Activites
Our Team
About Training and Placement
Training and Placement department is dedicated towards proper placement of students .It advices students on career options and provides the latest information on training & employment opportunities.
Focus areas are providing guidance, counseling and bringing students and potential employers together to achive the best possible placement depending on the market conditions .The department looks after the interest of the students and the employers by providing them the necessary platform.
Objective
To organize campus recruitment for final year students in reputed companies.
To facilitate companies for recruiting candidates as per their requirements.
Creating awareness amongst the students regarding various career options.
To enhance students employability by providing training in Aptitude & soft skills.
Helping students for summer training/internship programme.
Bridging gap between Industry and Academia through:
Seminars, Guest Lectures, Conferences, Corporate Meets & Industrial Visits etc.
Coordinating with various departments for imparting value added industry skills.
Our Recruiters
About Training
The objective of the training department is to match the corporate expectations by providing them Soft skills, Aptitude & Technical training.
The effectiveness of these training is evident from the consistent placement results. Several companies have been visiting the college every year to tap and recruit the young talented students.
Guest lectures & Mock interview sessions are being organized with the help of industry experts to bridge the gap between industry & academia.
A separate training department focuses on the all-round growth of students by offering certifications such as MTA, PTC, Cloud computing, Java, .net, Big Data, Robotics, Design and simulation keeping each student's core subject and year in mind.
Training Process
Training & Placement Polices
The role of the Training and Placement Cell is of a facilitator and councillor for placement related activities. Training and Placement cell does not guarantee a job.
Students to consult their Training & Placement Department before registration for the Industry in case of queries.
The information about the placement opportunities, schedules etc. will be displayed on T&P Notice Board, near Reception. Students must read this board daily. WhatsApp messages also will be given. After that, no responsibility of  providing info lies with T&P Dept.
It is Mandatory for the students interested in Campus Placement to attend various Training programs/ sessions arranged at Institute level.
Attending interview without basic preparation (profile/company info etc.) will lead to debarment for few months
Once registered, students CAN NOT back out from the further interview processes.
Non Attendance for the interview process without prior permission of T&P office, will lead to disqualification from Campus Placement Activities permanently.
Once shortlisted, it is mandatory for the students to go through the subsequent selection processes. Attending process casually, underperforming is a disqualification for further opportunities.
Institute formals during campus process is Mandatory.
About Training & Placement Cell.
The Training and Placement cell plays a crucial role in reducing the gap between the Campus and Corporate. It is the dream of every engineering student to get placed in a top organization visiting their campus for recruitment. The Cell operates round the year to facilitate contacts between Hiring Companies and Graduates.
The objective of APSIT, Training & Placement Cell is to place all eligible students in reputed IT and core manufacturing, infrastructure companies right at the campus itself. To achieve this objective the cell liaises with the various industrial establishments, corporate houses which conduct campus interviews and select students from all disciplines, by identifying their knowledge skills, attitude matrices of every individual student, creating job profiles for them, identifying areas of training & various methods as per the training requirement.
The challenge today is to make students more competent, and ‘Industry Ready’.
Companies Requirement
Excellent Aptitude
Technical Expert
Soft Skills
Positive Approach
Thus, College Aim at
Bridging the Gap between Industry and Academics
Enhancing Employability
Developing All-round Personality
Inculcating Managerial Skills.
Training and Placement Cell Activities:
Arranging in-plant training and industrial visits, during every academic year.
Facilitate Student Internships, during every academic year
Organizing guest lectures by inviting Corporate Professionals & distinguished Educationists/Academicians.
Imparting personality development programs to enhance the soft skills & Communications skills of the Students.
To motivate aspiring students to prepare for higher studies and guiding them to take exams such as CAT, GATE, TOEFL, GRE, IES, UPSC, TNPSC etc.
Conducting Mock & Preparatory Tests to take up competitive examinations for Higher Studies or for Employment
Ensuring training for students during vacations, by proven & reputed firms both on General Aptitude and Technical Aptitude
Arranging ON / OFF campus interviews.
Communication, Aptitude and Personality Training is imparted to the Students from 2nd year onwards and will be an on-going affair till the odd-semester of their final year.
Training Module consists of the following
Technical Aptitude
Communication Skills
General Aptitude
Quantitative Reasoning
Logical Reasoning
Verbal Reasoning
Group Discussion
Interview Skills
College Offers Expertise on:
Placement Process:
Search
Departments:
Computer Engineering
Civil Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
CSE AI and ML
CSE Data Science
Information Technology
Placement News!!!
Aurionpro Placement Drive
Capgemini Placement Drive
Exceller Tech Placement Drive
DSW Placement Drive
Paramatrix Placement Drive
SnapWorld Placement Drive
Exceller Placement Drive
Virtusa Placement Drive
Contact Info
Address: Survey No. 12, 13
Opp. Hypercity Mall, Kasarvadavali,
Ghodbunder Road, Thane West,
Thane, Maharashtra 400615
Phone: 022-25973737
[email protected]
Mobile: 7738305400 / 7738940600
Exam (for exam/transcripts related queries contact:
[email protected]
,
[email protected]
)
Powered by
Drupal
.
By continuing past this page, you agree to our Terms of Service, Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy and Content Policies. All trademarks are properties of their respective owners.
© APSIT. All rights reserved.