Principal Dr. Uttam D Kolekar | APSIT
Skip to main content
Toggle navigation
Parshvanath Charitable Trust's A. P. Shah Institute of Technology
(Religious Jain Minority Institute, Affiliated to University of Mumbai, Approved by AICTE Delhi & DTE)
Survey no 12, 13, Opp. Hypercity Mall, Kasarvadavali, Ghodbunder Road, Thane (W) 400 615, Maharashtra. Mob: 7738305400
Main navigation
Home
About
About
Approvals
Institutional Development Plan
APSIT-NIRF DATA
NBA Accreditation
Mandatory Disclosure
Balance Sheet
Admin
Governing Body
Principal
Controller of Examination
Board of Management
Academic Council
Board of Studies
Finance Committee
Internal Complaint Committee
Student Grievance Redressal Committee(SGRC)
Academic Leadership
Academics
Details of Academic Programs
Academic Calendar
Statutes/Ordinances pertaining to Academics/Examinations
Departments
AI and ML
Data Science
Computer  Engineering
Civil Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Information Technology
Vision and Mission
Faculty profile
Activities
Laboratories
Student Committee
Humanities and Applied Sciences
Library
Library Policy
Library Services
Rules for Students
Academic Collaborations
Mechanical  Engineering
Computer Engineering/IT/ EXTC
Civil Engineering
Syllabus
Computer Engineering
Information Technology
CSE AI & ML
CSE Data Science
Honors & Minor Degree
Admissions
Prospectus
Admission process and guidelines
Fee Refund Policy
Institute Brochure 2025-26
Admission Criteria
Fee Structure 2025-26
Admission FAQ's
Research
Entrepreneurship Development Cell
Research & Development
IPR
Start-Up policy
Central Facilities
Student Life
Sports Facilities
National Service Scheme (NSS)
Placements
About us
Placement Record
Training and Placement Officer
Student Grievance Redressal Committee(SGRC)
Health Facilities
Internal Complaint Committee
Anti-Ragging Cell
Facilities for differently-abled
Academic Initiatives
Attendance Reward Scheme
E-Learning Platform
NPTEL Local Chapter
IIT Bombay Super Resource Center
Xpression Club
Free GATE/GRE*/CAT* Coaching
Aptitude Training
Project Based Learning (PBL)
The MAC Club
Foreign Language Courses
ICASTe 2k19 Conference
Mentoring
Institution's Innovation Council - IIC
Counselling
Counselor
FAQ's
Industry Institute Interaction Cell
Exalt : Technical Fest
Student Council
Women Development Cell
Equal Opportunity Cell - APSIT
Socio-Economically Disadvantaged Groups Cell (SEDG)
Alumni
Alumni Association with details
Information
Announcements
Circulars & Notices
Newsletters
Job Openings
Gallery
Photos
Contacts
Convocation Ceremony @APSIT
Our Recruiters
Capgemini Placed Students of 2025 Batch
LTI Mind Tree Placed Students
APSIT: Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE), Maharashtra-Goa has awarded. APSIT "The Best Engineering College" and "Best Principal"
AurionPro Placed Students
It is my privilege to welcome you to the website of our Institute, dedicated to the quality technical education with all round development of the students to be competent professional Engineers of tomorrows to serve the society. We have exemplary infrastructural facilities, well equipped laboratories, separate computer center, the team of highly qualified faculty and the exhilarating atmosphere in the campus will surely take you to enviable heights in your capabilities and achievements.
We have research oriented, challenge seeking, well qualified and devoted faculty to train the students in quality technical education. The ultimate aim of our management and staff is to get higher percentage to our students and place them in multi-national companies. We conduct Seminars, Workshops, STTP, National and International conferences to update the development in science technology.
I believe that the institute will continue to produce competent technocrats and managers who will make significant contribution to the corporate world and industries all over the world which will enable them to serve as global citizens.
With Best Wishes
Dr. Uttam D. Kolekar
Principal
PhD (Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering)
Email:
[email protected]
Contact No:
022 25973737
Fax:
022 25973739
Career Highlights:
Chairman, Ad-hoc Board of Studies in Electronics & Telecommunications Engineering, University of Mumbai, from 18 April, 2016 to till date.
Ph.D. Recognized Guide for University of Mumbai.
Member Academic Council, University of Mumbai. Member Board of University Teaching & Research for the faculty of Technology, University of Mumbai.
Member of the Research and Recognition Committee for Ad-hoc Board of Studies in Electronics & Telecommunications Engineering, University of Mumbai.
Teaching Experience spanning 24 years with Ph.D. in Electronics Engineering a thesis titled, “Studies on Call Admissions Control in Mobile Ad-Hoc Networks.”
Involved in key Research & Development Projects
Area of Interest & Research:
Wireless Communication
Mobile Ad hoc Networks
Wireless Sensor Networks etc.
Publications: Journals
Amol R. Madane, Dr. Uttam D. Kolekar, “Euclidean Distance Method: A Tool for Speech Recognition”, International Journal of Pure and Applied Research in Engineering and Technology, Apr 2014.
Prakash B. Khelage, Dr. Uttam D. Kolekar, “TCP- Costco Reno: New Variant by Improving Bandwidth Estimation to adapt over MANETs”, International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications , Vol. 5, No. 2, pp. 01-10, 2014.
Amol R. Madane, Dr. Uttam D. Kolekar, “Dual Watermarking: Approach to Highlight the Ownership”, International Journal of Multimedia, Vol. 2, No. 1, pp. 18-21, Dec-2013.
Prakash B. Khelage, Dr. Uttam D. Kolekar, “Survey and Simulation Based Performance Analysis of TCP-Variants in terms of Throughput Delay and Drop Packets over Manets”, Inter. Journal of Scientific and Engineering Research, Vol. 4, No. 12, Dec-2013,
Dr. Uttam D. Kolekar, Amol R. Madane, “Use of DWT: Replacement Phenomenon of Digital Image Watermarking”, International Journal of Emerging Technology and Advanced Engineering, Vol. 2, No. 9, pp. 475-479, Sep 2012.
Amol R. Madane, Dr. Uttam D. Kolekar, “High Frequency Component based Addition Algorithm of Digital Image Watermarking”, International Journal of Computer Applications, Vol. 50, No. 10, pp. 30-34, Jul 2012.
Amol R. Madane, Dr. Uttam D. Kolekar, “Cascade Algorithm of Image Watermarking Based on Multiple Wavelet Components”, International Journal of Computers and Distributed Systems, Vol. 1, No. 2, pp. 26-31, Aug 2012.
Patil S.M., Kolekar U.D. “Content Based Image Retrieval Through Object Extraction”, Journal of Pattern Intelligence, Volume No1, issue 1, pp. 01-04, Jan-2011.
S. M. Patil, U. D. Kolekar, “Content Based image Retrieval Through Object Extraction”, Journal of Pattern Recognition, Vol 1, No. 1, pp. 01-04, Jan-2011.
Deepak C. Karia, Uttam D. Kolekar, “Performance Analysis of Real and Non Real Time Traffic over WLAN Using Connection Admission Control Policy” Second UKSIM Symposium on Modeling and simulation, pp 548-554, paper no. 0425332.
Uttam D. Kolekar, Nilesh, “Development of Voice Encryption System Based on Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) for Two Way Radios”, IJCCPE Journal, 2010.UttamD. Kolekar, Dr. S.K. Bodhe, “Mobility-based CAC Schemes for MANET in World-Wide Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMax)”, IETE Journal.
Rahul Ambekar, Dr. Uttam D. Kolekar, “A Survey on Multi-path routing Protocols in Mobile Adhoc Network” International Journal of Advanced Technology in Engineering and Science, Vol. No. 4, Issue No. 10.2016.
Vaibhav Narawade , Dr. Uttam D. Kolekar, “ACSRO: Adaptive cuckoo search based rate Adjustment for Optimized Congestion Avoidance andControl in Wireless Sensor Networks” Alexandria
Engineering Journal Alexandria University, 15 Oct. 2016. Sameer Nanivadikar, Dr. Uttam D. Kolekar, “An Approach Involving Dynamic Group Search Optimization for Allocating Resources in OFDM-based Cognitive Radio System” Alexandria Engineering Journal, Alexandriya University, 03 Oct. 2016.
Membership of Professional Institutes or Societies:
Life Member of Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE) New Delhi, (No.LM18815)
Fellow, Institution of Electronics & Telecommunication Engineer (FIETE), New Delhi, (No. F-198418)
Senior Member of IACSIT (International Association of Computer Science & Information Technology, No. 80332471.)
Life member of Indian Society for Non Destructive Testing (ISNT No.- LM-6487BM)
Computer Society of India (CSI)
Chartered Engineer (India), Electronics and Telecommunication Division.  - 6126
Search
Departments:
Computer Engineering
Civil Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
CSE AI and ML
CSE Data Science
Information Technology
Placement News!!!
Aurionpro Placement Drive
Capgemini Placement Drive
Exceller Tech Placement Drive
DSW Placement Drive
Paramatrix Placement Drive
SnapWorld Placement Drive
Exceller Placement Drive
Virtusa Placement Drive
Contact Info
Address: Survey No. 12, 13
Opp. Hypercity Mall, Kasarvadavali,
Ghodbunder Road, Thane West,
Thane, Maharashtra 400615
Phone: 022-25973737
[email protected]
Mobile: 7738305400 / 7738940600
Exam (for exam/transcripts related queries contact:
[email protected]
,
[email protected]
)
Powered by
Drupal
.
By continuing past this page, you agree to our Terms of Service, Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy and Content Policies. All trademarks are properties of their respective owners.
© APSIT. All rights reserved.